Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1350876:
Hi, I’m Ahmed, and this is my 8th class. I’m looking forward to form a group for an existing project. 

Time Zone: PST - Bay Area, California

Experience: I’m a Technical Program Manager at Apple Maps, with many years of development experience.

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Data Visualization, etc. applied in multiple industries: Mapping, Telecommunications, Design Automation.

Communication: WhatsApp, Slack, Email (aelsemary3@gatech.edu), etc. I’m flexible.

Project Topic: I’ve a cool idea for a project in the Geo-Mapping space. I’m also open for other ideas in the Mapping space.

  Comment from User 578087:
  Hello Ahmed,

I am Pankaj, this is my 8th class as well and interested in knowing more about your project and working with you on it.

Time Zone: Central - Minnesota

Skills: Data Engineering, Data Warehouse, Business Intelligence, Python, SQL, Databricks, AWS etc.

Communication: Email (pshrestha31@gatech.edu), Teams and can use other apps as needed

    Comment from User 1350876:
    Great!! I'll send you and Omar an email to arrange our meetings.

  Comment from User 1229905:
  Hi, I'm Omar - this is my 6th class. If you are still looking for a third member, I'm interested in hearing more about your project idea. I am in the EST but pretty flexible. I am comfortable with Python, R, SQL, and data visualization. My email is omasood3@gatech.edu.

    Comment from User 1350876:
    Great!! I'll send you and Pankaj an email to arrange our meetings.

