Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1230153:
Hi All,

I'm west coast, out in Phoenix, AZ. Would be happy to join a team for the group project. This is my 4th semester and 4th class in OMSA. 

Don't know what else to put here, but happy to answer any questions or connect further here, via the various OMSA slacks, email, etc. Thanks!

  Comment from User 1229645:
  Hi Kyle,

I just replied to Albert Liu who posted recently and is also in PST. I noticed you may be as well so perhaps we can all 3 join up if you reply to his thread where I posted my info too? Thought I might reach out since your post may be a bit buried by now =)

    Comment from User 1230153:
    Hi Roberto,

Seems like one or two more people replied to Albert's thing above, but if you might need another person my GT email is kylerockoff@gatech.edu. I'm not sure of my plans yet (might depend on if I connect with people in a study group I'm attending later this week), but as of now still interested. Thanks for replying.

  Comment from User 1325703:
  Hi Kyle,

My name is Jasper Wu. I currently reside in LA, CA.

Email: jwu859@gatech.edu

Time Zone: PST (My schedule is flexible).

Experience:

I am a full-time OMSA student, and this is my 3rd course. I have previously taken MGT 6203 (Data Analytics for Business) and CSE 6242 (Data and Visual Analytics). Additionally, I am currently enrolled in ISYE 7406 (Data Mining and Statistical Learning). 

Skills:

Python, R, SQL, Tableau, and Excel.

Communication Preference:

I’m comfortable with Slack, Teams, or Email for communication, no specific preference.

Other:

I am open to any project topic and willing to invest ample time to contribute effectively to the group project. Looking forward to working with you and collaborating for a successful project outcome!

Thank you,

Jasper

