Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1002886:
I'm looking to create / join a group for the final project. If you're interested, reply here with a little about yourself. Here's a little about me:

Time Zone: GMT+4, Dubai, UAE

Communication: Email / Teams

Experience: Data Analyst for over 3 years in a food tech company.

Skills: Drafting proposals/ documentation , strong math background , midrange Python

Project Topic: Open to suggestions.

  Comment from User 652262:
  Hi Kelly, 

Perhaps we could form a team? Here are my details:

Time Zone: EAT (GMT+3) - Nairobi, Kenya

Typical Study Hours: 4a-7a on weekdays + Saturday 5a-11a. Also open to some weekday evenings where necessary

Communication: Email, Slack - my email is mugweru@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL

Experience: I work as a data analyst for an energy fintech, with previous experience in Analytics consulting in Financial services and Operations management in the food delivery space

OMSA Program: This is my 8th class of the program, taking it with another, so I have 2 classes this semester

  Comment from User 810555:
  Hi Savannah and Kevin 

I am from South Africa and would be keen to join your group 

Time Zone: GMT+2, South Africa 

Communication: Open to anything, Whatsapp preferred 

Experience: I am an independent consultant for data analytics and research. My background is in the medical industry and I have experience in publishing academic articles. This is my 7th course in the OMSA Program. 

Skills: R, Python, SQL, Academic writing 

Project Topic: Open to suggestions.

My email is kgreenwood@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 1002886:
    Hi Kevin and Kelsi, 

I've dropped an email to you guys!

