Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 896440:
Hey, I'm Grace. I'm looking forward to team up with anyone based in PST time zone (or any time zone if it's past 5pm PST on weekdays!)



Time Zone: Seattle, Washington (PST)

Communication: Whatsapp, slack, email (ghan2022@gatech.edu)

Skills: Python, R, and SQL.

Classes taken: This is my 8th course. Have taken the foundational and a handful of ISYE courses including ISYE 7406, ISYE 6669, and ISYE6644

Background: Finance in Travel industry. 12 years of experience in total with other industry experience - manufacturing, mining and construction.

Effort: This is my only course this semester!

Project Topic: Open to anything!

  Comment from User 1333011:
  Hi Grace, 

My name is Nikhil and I am interested in exploring  health related or environment related topic. However, if there is any other topic that you find are more interesting then I am open to other ideas.  Do you have availability in your team?

I am a PhD in ChemE and so far I have taken 2 courses in OMSA program. I live in Southern California. 

I have strong skills in python and maths as well as in research so I would be be able to contribute well to the project. Thanks and let me know. 

Nikhil Raj

  Comment from User 1128152:
  Hi Grace,

I'm Brian and this is my 6th class for OMSA.

Time Zone: PST (Los Angeles)

Skills: Python, R, SQL

Background: Previously worked at a consulting firm as a data analyst. Taking classes full time this semester.

