Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 814024:
Hello everyone, my name is Eric.

Time Zone: PST from Southern California, Inland Empire.  However, I work second shift from 3PM to 11:30PM. (That would be 6PM to 2:30AM EST) I wish to team up with anyone PST, CST, or EST.

Communication: Flexible.

Skills: Taken intro core courses and ISYE 6669 which I took last sem. This will be my 6th course. Confident in Python/R. Growing interest in mathematics.

Background: I'm a clinical laboratory scientist and have been for 8 years now.

Project topic: I'd like to explore a health topic but I'm open to any topic. My hobbies include running, tennis, I grow hydroponic tomatoes and basil, 3d printing, stock and options trading (and personal finance), video games, eating, hiking, traveling, never ends really next will be trying to learn a few languages, we learn by doing! (I'm sure these all could have their own data project somehow)

  Comment from User 1128232:
  Hi Eric! My name is Heidi and I'd love to form a team/become teammates with you. I am also in the PST zone (Washington), and also flexible about communication platform. This is my 7th course and I am also comfortable with Python/R. I've been a data analyst for 2.5 years in public health research. I'm very interested in exploring a health topic as well but, similarly, open to other ideas.

    Comment from User 814024:
    Nice! I'm down. Send me an email or Microsoft teams at echreng3@gatech.edu. I might have spotty communications the next couple days as they're doing possible power shutoffs in my area due to high winds!

      Comment from User 1333011:
      Hi Eric, 

My name is Nikhil and I am interested in exploring  health related topic as well.  Do you have availability in your team?

I am a PhD in ChemE and so far I have taken 2 courses in OMSA program. I live in Southern California as well, so that timing would work out for us too. 

I have strong skills in python and maths as well as in research so I would be be able to contribute well to the project. Thanks and let me know. 

Nikhil Raj

        Comment from User 814024:
        Hi Nikhil, 

If you are still available, we are still open for a 3rd member to our team. Right now we are thinking of communicating through discord if that's okay with you. Send me an email if you are interested.

Eric

