Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1127985:
Hi everyone!

My name is Phi Nguyen, this will be my fourth course in the OMSA program, and excited to take this class.

I'm currently looking to form a group for the class project. My areas of interest include acoustics, dynamics, and engineering in general. I'm also open to hearing about other project topics that leverage your expertise!

A little bit about me:

I'm based in Atlanta, GA, so my timezone is EST.

I'm proficient in Matlab, Python, R, and Latex

My preferred methods of communication are personal email (will share after forming the group), text, Zoom, or Google Meet.

If you're interested in collaborating on a project related to these areas, please feel free to reach out to me at pnguyen363@gatech.edu.

Looking forward to meeting you all!

  Comment from User 1229920:
  Hi Phi, I am interested to join your group. 

Time Zone: CST (Houston, TX)

Communication: Text/email/discord

Experience: I'm a data scientist in an engineering company. 

Skills: R, plotly.js, SQL, Python.

Availability: I work full time but can have meetings in the evening and on weekends

  Comment from User 1512049:
  Hello Phil, My name is Thushar Garipalli. I am interested in joining a team for the group project. If interested, provide me with your phone number and I will add it to whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). Here is some info about me if you are interested:

I live in Atlanta, GA

I am certified in both Python and Tableau

I make sure myself and everyone is doing their fair share when it comes to projects

I am very through and a perfectionist/completionist and I also make sure the project is submitted (in case the group member is busy or computer crashes or forgot to do it)

I always make reminders on what/when to do things

  Comment from User 896205:
  My name is Soyadev Devadoss. I currently reside in Atlanta, GA.
Email: sdevadoss6@gatech.edu
Time Zone: EST (My schedule is flexible).

Experience:
I am a full-time OMSA student, and this is my 6th course. I have previously taken MGT 8803, CSE 6040, and ISYE 6501. Additionally, I am currently enrolled in CSE 6242 (Data and Visual Analytics) and MGT 6203 (Data Analytics for Business).

Skills:
Python, R, SQL, Tableau, and Excel.

Communication Preference:
I’m comfortable with WhatsApp, Discord, or Email for communication, no specific preference.

Other:
I am open to any project topic and willing to invest ample time to contribute effectively to the group project. Looking forward to working with the team and collaborating for a successful project outcome!

Thank you,
Soyadev

  Comment from User 506357:
  Hi Phi! I'd love to join your team if you still need another member. I am also in Atlanta so our time zones match! I'm very comfortable with R, Excel, and Tableau and also have experience with Power BI, Python, and SQL.

