Thread ID: 5950315
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hello Students, 

This semester our team is working on introducing new GradeScope grading for specific coding questions. Because this is in very early stages, we do not want to overwhelm students and punish them for our testing, so it is an optional additional step. We have decided to offer students that participate in this GradeScope testing 5 bonus points. Any submission to gradescope will receive half points, and submissions that pass all of the GradeScope tests will receive the full 5 points.

Submitting to Gradescope will involve setting up your code in a specific format to support the autograder. It's important to know that this is an ADDITIONAL submission, your primary submission will still be through canvas, and your PDF and code submitted to canvas still must include all of your answers.

For this first assignment, we will share the required code scaffolding here in this thread. This code scaffolding will assist students in setting up their algorithms in the way that the GradeScope autograder will require. This means also using only the specific packages listed in the requirements.txt for each question. The provided requirements.txt will exactly match the gradescope environment, any packages not in this will not work. Additionally, Students must submit the files with specific file names, I've listed below the specific file needs of each question.

Paresh will host a 30 minute office hour to review this code scaffolding and answer questions tomorrow, January 9th, 1PM EST. This session will be recorded, and of course any further questions can be posted to ED.

HW1Q3 - Image Compression



KMeans.py

football.bmp

sea-turtle-400x225.png

custom image

HW1Q4 - Political Blogs



political_blogs_clustering.py

edges.txt

nodes.txt

HW1Q5 - MNIST Clustering



mnist_clustering.py

mnist_10digits.mat

Clarifying breakdown of potential bonus points for HW1:



Q3: 2 Points (Submission worth 1, Correct tests worth 1)

Q4: 2 Points (Submission worth 1, Correct tests worth 1)

Q5: 1 Points (Submission worth 0.5, Correct Tests worth 0.5)

Important Notices

Passing the Gradescope questions tests is only an indication that your code is running successfully within the parameters of our tests. It does not necessarily mean that your assignment is correct, and it will still be graded by your TA. This is an initial test, and we have the long term goal of integrating more tests to assist us with the tedious grading of coding questions.

Gradescope submission will be allowed until the end of the 7 day extension period and  it will use your homework extension days.

There are situations that a students code can "Pass" Gradescope even with an improper algorithm. While unintentional situations will not be penalized, any students caught intentionally trying to cheat the Gradescope system to pass the tests without doing the work will receive a -5 point penalty on their assignment.

Comment from User 121859:
Hi team! 

I had to upload multiple times to debug why I was getting an error message on Gradescope and in order to do that I had to comment out part of my code and "fake" the output to make find where exactly it was failing, this because Gradescope was not even returning what was wrong. I explained it here, after I found it I fixed it and uploaded the complete solution.
My question: Is that consider cheating the Gradescope? since my last submission was complete. 
Thanks

  Comment from User 134876:
  As long as that isn't in your final solution, that's fine and expected with gradescope to submit multiple times until you meet the requirements. By faking the output we mean we have some students who very clearly intentionally found what the grader was looking for to pass the tests, then instead of making an algorithm returned only objects that matched those properties, So their question is clearly wrong but it "passes" the tests. These are the cases that we would penalize.

    Comment from User 121859:
    Thanks Mark.

