Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 962263:
Hi! My name is Drew and I'm looking for a project team.

Academic Experience: I studied Economics and Statistics at Purdue University for my undergrad, and this is my 6th OMSA course (after IYSE 6501, CSE 6040, IYSE 6203, Reg, and DMSL).

Work Experience: Currently working in Medical Economics for a healthcare provider in Nashville, TN, using mainly SQL and some Python.

Communication: Email (amarshall67@gatech.edu), text, etc.

Time Zone: CST (US) - generally free most weekdays after 6:30PM, Sunday evenings.

Skills: Python, SQL, R, PowerBI, Excel, etc. 

Project Topic: Open to any topics, but would prefer something healthcare-related or even elections-related (think FiveThirtyEight-type predictions).

  Comment from User 1316826:
  Hi Drew,

We are looking for one more person to join in central/eastern time and considering healthcare. Would you be interested? I can make a group chat in Slack if you're on the OMSA slack and open to communication there.

    Comment from User 962263:
    Hi Benjamin! Would definitely be interested in joining. I'm not in the OMSA slack currently, but can join.

  Comment from User 652074:
  Hello Drew,

I am in Houston, TX(CST) , and I want to check if your team still have any available spot. It's my 8th class. I am very flexable on weekend and always available to have meeting after 9:00pm (CST) or before 8:00pm (CST).  I have health informatics background. I am open to all project topic. Please let me know if we can team up. My email is :xwang3144@gatech.edu

