Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1332929:
Hi everyone! Hope y'all are doing well. I am Yousuf and this is my 2nd semester and 4th course.

Timezone: I am based in Pakistan and for the most part I'll be doing assignments/studying from 11 AM - 4 PM (Eastern Time)

Background: I have a bachelors in Mechanical engineering & worked for almost 4 years as an estimation engineer for fire protection systems. Currently doing OMSA full time. I've completed CSE 6040, ISYE 6501 & MGT 8803 last semester and did pretty well in all three courses. I'm currently enrolled in ISYE 6644, MGT 6203 and of course ISYE 6740. (Enrolled in 3 courses but I'm studying full time so I will be able to devote enough time to each)

Skills: Strong math background, pretty comfortable coding in Python and R and have some experience in Matlab from undergrad. Don't have experience with LaTeX right now but will be looking to get familiar with it early into the course.

Preferred Communication: Whatsapp for regular updates / Zoom or Gmeets as required

Email: mqureshi46@gatech.edu

Project Topic: Do not have anything particular in mind as of now and am willing to 

Looking for reliable and committed group members who communicate regularly and are good with deadlines (internal group deadlines, to ensure we can finish well ahead of the actual deadline). If you're interested please send me an email or reply here :)

I won't mind having a discussion/answer any questions before finalizing a group.

  Comment from User 663378:
  Hi! My name is Bradley, I'm reaching out because I'm a consulting mechanical engineer in the MEP and cybersecurity commissioning spaces, it sounds like we're both building science types and that's cool.

Coming back from a year away from the program, but I'm currently in my 8th and 9th courses. I'm in Mountain Time (Denver, CO) with wide availability to schedule meetings when they make sense for everybody. 

Email: bgrant43@gatech.edu

