Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1325800:
Hi All,

I'm Sadhana, working as a Senior Bioinformatician. This is my 4th semester and 5th course. I have experience with python (did well in CSE6040 and worked on a project in CSE6242) and used LaTex (in CSE6242). Good at math and MATLAB during my undergrad but haven't worked on it recently. I'm interested in working on a project related to biomedical science or biology but open to other ideas. My email: sgaddam38@gatech.edu

Time zone : PST, I live in bay area, California.

  Comment from User 1230062:
  Hi Sadhana, my name is Brian and I come from a similar background working in biomedical research - although from a more bench-based approach. I am using this program to aid me in transitioning away from the bench and would love to form a group. Here are my details:

Time Zone: PST, I live in Los Angeles.

Communication: Discord, text, or email (blarkin31@gatech.edu) preferred

Experience: This is my 6th OMSA course. Graduated undergrad in 2019 with a degree in Neuroscience. Previous experience as an Research Assistant in a few research labs from neuroscience to immunology, currently working as a marketing manager for a business and working in the entertainment industry.

Skills: Skilled at written reports and verbal presentations, mid-experience in Python/Jupyter and R (I've done well in the program so far), little experience in MATLAB but am planning on attempting the homework projects using it to learn. Decent statistics background having just taken Simulation.

 Effort: This is my only class this semester and I am highly motivated by investigating interesting biological/biomedical questions.

Project Topic: Interested in the biomedical field, or data in healthcare.

    Comment from User 1230113:
    Hi guys, my name is Ashria Arora. I am currently a full time student, and have an undergraduate degree in bioinformatics! 

Time Zone: EST, I live in Northern VA.

Communication: Discord, text, or email (aarora368@gatech.edu)

Experience: This is my 4th semester in OMSA. Graduated undergrad in 2018, and was pursuing dentistry while working in the dental field until I realized it was not for me. I started transitioning last year and started this masters as well. I have worked as a EDI Business analyst until I was laid off. Currently looking for new positions but fully focused on learning through OMSA.

Skills: Skilled at written reports and presentations as well, experience in Python, R, and pretty good statistics background. I just finished taking CSE 6040, and absolutely loved it. 

 Effort: I am fully dedicated to the class due to not working right now. 

Project Topic: Interested in the bioinformatics field, and definitely in healthcare.

    Comment from User 1230113:
    Hey Brian, was wondering if you still were interested in joining our group? Sadhana and I have connected and wanted to reach out to make sure! Feel free to respond to the email I sent out or respond here, and we can resolve this thread as well! We have whatsapp and discord if that's easier for you to connect on.

