Thread ID: 5996558
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Please ask all questions related to HW2 Q3 here.

There are no runtime requirements for this question, however please keep it reasonable (<10min).

See #130 for additional notes.

PCA package can be used as part of the ISOMAP algorithm. ISOMAP, MDS, and cmdscale (MATLAB) packages are not permitted for this question.

Comment from User 1512035:
For Q3.1

I used NetworkX library in Python to plot my nearest neighbor graph but also used entirely native libraries to plot my adjacency matrix visualization. Since NetworkX is not native to Jupyter, can I still include the plots in my writeup but delete the code that generates the plot from my Jupyter file, or should I leave the code, or do something else? I would love to include the plots because they turned out really cool, but generating them without the library is a lot.

  Comment from User 1512040:
  Commenting so I can follow along because I am in the same situation. It takes a non-trivial amount of time to visualize the graph too (my code could probably be more optimized)

  Comment from User 672141:
  Surely, you should include the plots you generated with NetworkX in your report (pdf). If you flip the graph in a certain way you may be able to see the manifold shape Prof X mentions in lecture. 

About the library not being native to Python, you don't need to worry as the TAs will have the necessary packages on their environment to run the code in your Jupyter NB. You can always note it at the top of the notebook with a reference to the library website.

    Comment from User 1512035:
    Should I include a notebook without it in case they can't get it to run? I would hate to get a zero on the assignment because it caused an error. Also I'm assuming I should remove it from the code for the autograder.

      Comment from User 672141:
      It shouldn't be a problem to include all the networkX code in the notebook. If you are concerned about environment issues, you can always include a README.txt with the particular versions of the packages your environment is running (the ones relevant to the notebook only). 

For the Gradescope submission, I don't see networkX as one of the packages in requirements.txt, therefore including it can cause an error with the autograder.

