Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1325734:
Hi All,

I'm Yuriy and this is my 5th course in the program and looking for a group to work with on the group project!

Time Zone: EST - live near Philadelphia, PA

Communication: Discord, text, or email preferred

Email: ydidura3@gatech.edu

Experience: Internal Auditor, Data Analyst, and Data Steward in the Banking and Financial Industries 

Skills: 

Strong Math/Statistics background (Undergrad in Actuarial Science and completed my Grad in Statistics)

Strong in Python and R

Basic in MATLAB  - used for a project in my Grad program before

Basic at LaTeX - used for previous report write up and class note

Strong report writer

Good at creating Data Visualizations

 Effort: I am very vocal when it comes to projects and love to have good discussions. I like to split up work and deliver my parts on time. I can lead conversations/project status discussions or can be an active team member and let someone else lead. Looking for a group of people that not afraid to voice their opinions and can be held accountable for their deliverables.

Project Topic: I am interested in Financial, Economic, Real Estate, etc. related topics. I am open to all topics.

  Comment from User 307528:
  Hello Yuriy - I am from Queens, NY. I am interested to join your group. Here is my email address (wzakariyya3@gatech.edu). 

Time Zone: EST - Queens, NY

Communication: Discord, text, or email preferred

Experience: Business Intelligence Analyst 

Skills: 

Good understanding Math/Statistics 

Intermediate level in Python and R

Basic in MATLAB - never used

Basic at LaTeX - Used in DVA class

Intermediate level report writer

Good at creating Data Visualizations

 Effort:  I give a lot of effort into the project to complete deliverables as early as possible, and help team member as needed. 

Project Topic: I am open to all topics.



Please confirm from your end.  I look forward to hearing back from you.

    Comment from User 814099:
    If this group is not full, I would like to join.

  Comment from User 962021:
  Hi there! I'm  Suganya Natarajan, based in Atlanta. Would like to be part of the team. About me :  

This is my 7th course in OMSA. 

Working as Principal Data Engineer in Banking Domain  AI/ML Enablement. Also have 10+ yrs experience in Retail Industry as a Data Engineer.  

I'm flexible with communication channel and work timings .

I'm strong in Python and looking forward to learn MATLAB.

I'm interested in Agentic AI workflows and open to project topics .

