Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1133886:
Hi all, 
I am looking for a group to work with on the class project. Please reply to this post or email me if you are interest in the topic of interest of mine. 

Time Zone: CST, in Houston, TX

Communication: Text or email, Ahatsapp

Experience: Data Analyst, Customer Analysis, and Pricing and Margin Optimization

Skills: Python and R, SQL. This is my 6th course in the program. 

Email: Shayansabahi@gatech.edu

Topic Interest: Stock Analysis (Price prediction, or news analysis or etc.)

  Comment from User 1512058:
  Hello Shayan!

I'd be interested in joining your group! I have some experience with stock trading data and interested to hear your ideas. 

Time Zone: CST - Chicago, IL

Communication: Text, email, slack, zoom - email: tguerrettaz3@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL with a math/stat Bachelors

Experience: I currently work as a Trade Data Analyst primarily working in R and SQL 

OMSA Program: This is my 4th class in the OMSA program.

    Comment from User 1133886:
    Thank you Tanner! I will wait for another 3 days to see if we get a third person and will create a group for us!

  Comment from User 653563:
  Hello Shayan!

I am interested in joining your group! I'd love to hear more about your idea.

Time Zone: PST - Seattle, WA (flexible)

Communication: Text, GroupMe, slack, email: kwiggins34@gatech.edu 

Skills: Python, R, SQL 

Experience: Graduated with a B.S. in Math and Industrial Engineering, Supply Chain Analyst 2024, Design Engineer 2025

OMSA Program: This is my 3rd class in the OMSA program

