Thread ID: 5950315
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hello Students, 

This semester our team is working on introducing new GradeScope grading for specific coding questions. Because this is in very early stages, we do not want to overwhelm students and punish them for our testing, so it is an optional additional step. We have decided to offer students that participate in this GradeScope testing 5 bonus points. Any submission to gradescope will receive half points, and submissions that pass all of the GradeScope tests will receive the full 5 points.

Submitting to Gradescope will involve setting up your code in a specific format to support the autograder. It's important to know that this is an ADDITIONAL submission, your primary submission will still be through canvas, and your PDF and code submitted to canvas still must include all of your answers.

For this first assignment, we will share the required code scaffolding here in this thread. This code scaffolding will assist students in setting up their algorithms in the way that the GradeScope autograder will require. This means also using only the specific packages listed in the requirements.txt for each question. The provided requirements.txt will exactly match the gradescope environment, any packages not in this will not work. Additionally, Students must submit the files with specific file names, I've listed below the specific file needs of each question.

Paresh will host a 30 minute office hour to review this code scaffolding and answer questions tomorrow, January 9th, 1PM EST. This session will be recorded, and of course any further questions can be posted to ED.

HW1Q3 - Image Compression



KMeans.py

football.bmp

sea-turtle-400x225.png

custom image

HW1Q4 - Political Blogs



political_blogs_clustering.py

edges.txt

nodes.txt

HW1Q5 - MNIST Clustering



mnist_clustering.py

mnist_10digits.mat

Clarifying breakdown of potential bonus points for HW1:



Q3: 2 Points (Submission worth 1, Correct tests worth 1)

Q4: 2 Points (Submission worth 1, Correct tests worth 1)

Q5: 1 Points (Submission worth 0.5, Correct Tests worth 0.5)

Important Notices

Passing the Gradescope questions tests is only an indication that your code is running successfully within the parameters of our tests. It does not necessarily mean that your assignment is correct, and it will still be graded by your TA. This is an initial test, and we have the long term goal of integrating more tests to assist us with the tedious grading of coding questions.

Gradescope submission will be allowed until the end of the 7 day extension period and  it will use your homework extension days.

There are situations that a students code can "Pass" Gradescope even with an improper algorithm. While unintentional situations will not be penalized, any students caught intentionally trying to cheat the Gradescope system to pass the tests without doing the work will receive a -5 point penalty on their assignment.

Comment from User 301842:
Just to clarify, this gradescope submission is the same code we will write for the pdf report and zip files? Is the reason for this bonus the ask to debug our code ourselves? A bit confused on this redundant initiative.

  Comment from User 134876:
  Yes you can use this same code structure with your pdf report as well. If you are to participate in this, I would recommend starting your code initially from the scaffolding.

The purpose of this is an initial test, with the long term goal of more automated grading as an option. Currently our grading is a very manual process and a TA needs to run every students code to verify it’s running and generating the proper results. A properly functioning gradescope grader can handle the process of running the code and ensuring it is correct so the TAs can focus their time grading students analysis instead. In its end state, yes this could be used to assist in debugging your code or providing verification that you have output in the same format expected. It’s important to note currently that it is only checking that your output is in the accepted format, it is not checking the actual content of your output for correctness, that will be done by a TA during grading.

    Comment from User 301842:
    Gotcha gotcha, makes sense. Thank you.

