Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1501909:
Hi,
I'm looking for a teammate to work as a group of 2.

Time Zone: EST (but flexible to other time zones).

Communication: WhatsApp, email, Teams (open to other platforms).

Background: Physician turned Data Scientist with 5 years of experience in the insurance industry. This is my 7th class.

Strengths: Python, R, SQL, statistics, research and organizational skills.

Availability: Weekday afternoons and evenings.

Project Topic: Open to any topic. I like to work ahead of schedule to avoid last-minute stress.

Email: despinoza31@gatech.edu

Please email me or reply here if you are interested.

  Comment from User 1232277:
  Hello Daniela,

I am Kshitij Gurung based in Minneapolis, MN and I would be happy to join your team if you are still looking for one.

I have 4.5 plus years of professional experience in Data domain building end-to-end BI reports (Power BI, SSRS, Azure, Python), Data warehousing & Engineering (Azure Data Factory, SSIS), DBA (SQL and Azure SQL Land). I also have quantitative research experience with computational genomics (R) and statistics analysis (peer reviewed paper). I also have Microsoft: Azure Data Scientist Associate, and Microsoft: Power BI Data Analyst certifications. I have okay exposure in C#, C++, JavaScript. 

This is my 4th class and have completed ISYE 6501, MGT 8803, and CSE 6040 so far. I hold B.S in Mathematics & Economics Majors and Statistics & Data Science concentration from St. Olaf College, MN, where I was involved in many quantitative research projects mostly in R. Btw, I am taking this semester (spring) off from profession work to 100% focus on  OMSA 😊.

Here is my email and LinkedIn: kgurung8@gatech.edu, https://www.linkedin.com/in/kshitij-gurung-7866ab136/ .

    Comment from User 1501909:
    Hi Kshitij,

Sounds great, let's team up for the project.

  Comment from User 318771:
  Hi Daniela

I am based in Atlanta, GA (EST timezone) and would be happy to join. Is a spot still open?

This is my 8th course in OMSA, and I have been a working professional for over decade. I have expertise in Databricks, Python, PowerBI and other data analytics tools/technologies.

I am open to any topic for the project, and normally I am free during the evenings. I do travel a lot for work but this should not get in the way for me to join the calls.

Let me know if I can join this team? I can be reached at adarsh.gupta@gatech.edu

Thanks!

