Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1325688:
Hi Everyone,

My name is Philip, and I currently live in Jacksonville, FL.

Experience

I’m a Senior Data Analyst at Mazda North American Operations. This is my 6th course in the program. Last semester, I completed DVA, where I led the modeling efforts for our group project. I was responsible for building and implementing several machine learning models, evaluating their accuracy metrics, and comparing their performance. Using scraped data provided by other team members, I troubleshot issues to ensure the models produced clean, reliable results, which we analyzed for our final project.

Communication

I’m flexible with communication methods—email (plam35@gatech.edu), Slack, WhatsApp, text, or others. However, I believe Slack would work best as our primary communication tool.

Time Zone

Eastern Standard Time (EST)
I’m available for daily, weekly, or biweekly meetings as needed during most evenings after 5 PM, Monday through Friday. I’m also flexible on weekends with proper scheduling.

Skills

Programming: Python, SQL, R

Visualization Tools: Tableau, Power BI

Project Topic

I’m open to exploring any project topics and excited to collaborate with you all!

Looking forward to working with everyone!

Best,
Philip

  Comment from User 1512065:
  Hey Philip,

My name is Hemil, and I currently live in Pennsylvania, let me know if you want to join up!

Time Zone: EST

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email: hray32@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, SQL, R, Java, PowerBi, Tableau, etc.

Background: Currently a Data Analyst with a bachelor's in physics, this is my 5th course!

Project Topic: Open to anything!

  Comment from User 280091:
  Hi Philip,

My name is Melody, I live in Atlanta,GA

Time Zone: EST, my schedule is very flexible, All of my commitments are asynchronous. 

Communication: I'm also very flexible. You name it, I have it! Email: spogula3@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, SQL, R, Tableau

Background: I work part time as a Data Analyst with a BS in ISyE from GT with a concentration in analytics and data science, this is my 4th course! I also took DVA last semester and handled everything related to the data(finding, scraping, cleaning, etc.) and a little over half of the modeling

Project Topic: Open to anything! I have a few rough ideas in mind already

