Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 804753:
Hey Everyone! I'm looking for a group. I live in EST time zone. Please reach out to either of my emails. Or reply here.

Email:  rmatyjek3@gatech.edu
              rmatyjek@ufl.edu

Communication: text/email/whatsapp are my preferences

Experience: Five years of industry C++, this is also my 8th class in the program

Skills: C++, Python

Availability: Anytime on the weekends, after 6pm EST on weekdays.

  Comment from User 896320:
  Hi Robert,

I work as a DB Manager for an e-commerce company in EST time zone and would like to join your group if you'll have me. All of those methods of communication work well with me. I have the same weekday availability and can make myself available on weekends as necessary. I am also in my 8th course and am skilled in Python, R, SQL. I am open to exploring a wide variety of topics.

    Comment from User 652074:
    Hello Robert,

I am in Houston, TX(CST) , and I want to check if your team still have any available spot. It's my 8th class. I am very flexable on weekend and always available to have meeting after 9:00pm (CST) or before 8:00pm (CST). I have health informatics background. I am open to all project topic. Please let me know if we can team up. My email is :xwang3144@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 486388:
    Hi Travis - I am also interested in doing an e-commerce project, let me know if your team has any spots available.

  Comment from User 962357:
  Hi, I would like to join in your group if any spot available. My name is Jennie Jeong, and I am based in Atlanta.

Experience: I have worked as a supply chain analyst in the aerospace industry for many years and hold a BS in Mathematics and Statistics. This is my 8th course in the OMSA program.

Communication: I am available via Teams, WhatsApp, Email (kjeong43@gatech.edu), text, or any other platform that works for the team.

Time Zone: EST (US) – I’m generally available most evenings and nights on weekdays, and anytime on weekends.

Skills: R, Python, SQL, Power BI, Statistics

Thanks!

