Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1230135:
Hi everyone, I'm interested in joining a team if possible.

Time Zone: EST (Athens, Georgia)

Communication: Ed, Slack, Teams, Email (sfarrar@gatech.edu), etc. 

Experience: Computational Biology, Bioinformatics, CMC Analytical Development

OMSA Program: 4th class in the program (+ MGT 6203 this semester)

Skills: Python, R, MATLAB

Project Interests: Strengths would be anything biology/healthcare-adjacent, but open to any and all CV-buidlers!

Cheers!

  Comment from User 962260:
  Hey Steven, I would love to form a team with you! 

Time Zone: EST (Duluth, Georgia)

Communication: Ed, Slack, Discord, GroupMe, Email (ejariwalla3@gatech.edu) 

Experience: Biology and Psychology (Undergrad)

OMSA Program: 7th class in the program (+ MGT 8833 this semester)

Skills: R, Python, Tableau

Project Interests: Anything biology/healthcare related, but I did do a project regarding stocks last semester, so definitely open to anything.

  Comment from User 962089:
  Hello! My name is Dammy and I’d love to join this team.

Time Zone: EST (Atlanta, Georgia)
Communication: Ed, Email, text message(oayoola6@gatech.edu) 
Experience: Bioengineering (Undergrad)
OMSA Program: 9th class in the program
Skills: Python, R, Matlab, 
Project Interests: Healthcare, public health (food scarcity, vaccines, etc)

  Comment from User 962357:
  Hi, I would like to join in your group if available. My name is Jennie Jeong, and I am based in Atlanta.

Experience: I have worked as a supply chain analyst in the aerospace industry for many years and hold a BS in Mathematics and Statistics. This is my 8th course in the OMSA program.

Communication: I am available via Teams, WhatsApp, Email (kjeong43@gatech.edu), text, or any other platform that works for the team.

Time Zone: EST (US) – I’m generally available most evenings and nights on weekdays, and anytime on weekends.

Skills: R, Python, SQL, Power BI, Statistics

Thanks!

