Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 976309:
Hey I’m Natesha from Central Florida. Excited to level up and meet other techies with alternative skills/backgrounds!

 Here’s my LinkedIn:  https://www.linkedin.com/in/nateshamortimer/ 



Time Zone: EST - Florida

Availability: Generally available after 5pm EST everyday, and earlier times occasionally

Email: nmortimer6@gatech.edu

Communication: Discord, Teams, Slack, etc

Skills: Python, R, SQL, etc

Background: Currently have a startup Analytics company. I’ve worked in Financial industry for just over 4 years Financial Derivatives & KYC/AML. I have my BS in Finance. This is my 6th OMSA course.

Project Topic: 

I’d love to do a project that’s meaningful - deals with real data and has some sort of real business/social application like social medial, marketing, customer research, etc! (Not interested in medical or sports). 

Let’s brainstorm!!

Effort: Only taking this course, so I’m really excited to put lots of energy into a innovative out of the box project!!!

  Comment from User 506357:
  Hi Natesha! Our names are almost the same LOL! 

I'd love to join your team if you still need members. My time zone is EST as well. I completely agree with your idea to do a meaningful project topic, and I also would prefer not to do something related to medicine or sports (especially not sports haha). I'm really interested in social media and marketing (I also have a YouTube channel! :) so I think that our wants really align here.

I'm very comfortable with R, Excel, and Tableau and also have experience with Power BI, Python, and SQL. I'm a full-time student so my schedule is very flexible! My email is nhavanur6@gatech.edu feel free to reach out if you'd like to team up!

    Comment from User 976309:
    Would love to work with you! Saw your name in an earlier discussion and thought it was me- but realized I didn't post a response yet. Lol

      Comment from User 506357:
      HAHA I thought the same when I saw your post 🤣  

I'll go ahead and shoot over a message to you on Teams! I'm also okay with using Discord or a text group though

  Comment from User 976309:
  Looking for a 3rd team member! Let us know if you are interested and share about yourself :)

    Comment from User 1512025:
    Hi! I'm Caroline and would love to join your group if you're still looking. I live in Stamford, CT (EST) and am a full-time student with a very flexible schedule. I have a BS in Computer Science and Statistics and am comfortable with Python, SQL, R. 

I'm also hoping to work with real data; a project about social media/marketing sounds fun! Overall, I'm looking for a collaborative group where we can learn from each other and make an amazing project. Discord, Teams, text, Slack are all good with me. My teams contact is cpowers37@gatech.edu. Let me know if you'd like to team up!

      Comment from User 976309:
      Hey Caroline, yes you are open to join us :)

