Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 962329:
Hi everyone,

My name is Samirrah (Sam). I’m in my fourth semester. I’m looking for a group to join and collaborate for the project. 

Time Zone: EST -  Virginia ( can collaborate with CST)

Communication: WhatsApp, Slack, or Email (snyo3@gatech.edu)

Experience:  I work in Cybersecurity for a healthcare company. This is my 7th class.

Skills: Data visualization tools, R and Python. 

Project Topic: I am interested in healthcare, but I’m open to different suggestions.

  Comment from User 1325788:
  Hi Samirrah, I am interested in collaborating with you if you are still looking for a teammate! Thanks. 

Time Zone: CST

Communication: Teams or Email (apang33@gatech.edu)

Experience: I am a senior consultant focusing on internal audit analytics in a consulting firm. This is my 5th class. 

Skills: Power BI, Python, SQL, and some R. 

Project Topic: I am interested in healthcare and financial services.

    Comment from User 962329:
    Hi Aiqi,

Awesome! I'll email you and Qianwen today! Thank you

  Comment from User 799296:
  Hi Samirrah and Aiqi,

I'd like to join your group if you are open to adding another person on the team.

Time Zone: EST - New Jersey ( can collaborate with CST)

Communication: WhatsApp, Slack, or Email (qzhang457@gatech.edu)

Experience: I work in digital advertising industry. This is my last course before graduating with the Online Master's program in Analytics

Skills: SQL, Python, R

Project Topic: I'm most familiar with marketing. media and advertising topics but open to collaborate on any new ideas!

    Comment from User 962329:
    Hi Qianwen,

I'll send you an email shortly and Congratulations! Thank you

