Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1271303:
Hello everyone!



I am also looking for group project team mates

Time Zone: CST. Wouldnt have any issues working with EST or PST team mates.

Communication: Discord, whatsapp, slack

Skills: Data Scientist with coding background in languages like Python, R, and SQL.

Classes taken: Basic and Advanced courses

Background: Data Scientist in Pharma industry. 8 years of experience

Effort: Part-Time OMSA student with a 9-5, but I can meet at any time during the day and every day.

Project Topic: Im good with anything you might be interested in. I have knowledge in clinical trials data.

Best, 
David

  Comment from User 1133866:
  Hi David,

My name is Katherine (Jiayu) Yan and I would love to form a team together!

Time Zone: CST - Austin, Texas

Communication: Teams, Email - my email is jyan382@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, Java, C, R, SQL, Data Engineering, CS background (Bachelors Degree)

Experience: I am currently working as a Process Engineer in the Tech Industry and will rotate to a Data Science role within the same Tech company in the next month.

OMSA Program: This is my 8th class in the OMSA program.

Project Topic: I am happy to do whichever fields that the team is interested in doing.

Feel free to reach out to my email or DM me on Teams if we can form into one group!

    Comment from User 1271303:
    Hi Kat,

Unfortunately I already got a group going for me, but Neha Goel (a few posts above) is also looking for group. You might want to team up together.

Best of lucks!

David

      Comment from User 1133866:
      Thanks for letting me know David! :)

