Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 962291:
Hi everyone! My name is Tanisha, and I live in Connecticut.


Experience: I work as a data analyst/business engineer in the semiconductor industry and have a BS in Statistics from Michigan. This is my 6th course in the OMSA program.

Communication: Email (tpardasani3@gatech.edu), Text, etc

Time Zone: EST (US) - I'm generally available most evenings and nights on weekends and weekdays.

Skills: R, Python, PowerBi, Statistics 

Project Topic: Open to any topics.

  Comment from User 490310:
  Hi Tanisha. I'm interested in working with you. I'm a recently retired database developer, administrator, and IT manager so I should have a good bit of time to devote to our project. I'm in the Atlanta area so I'm also in EST. I have only this course this semester and the practicum in the fall to finish the program. I also have R, Python, and some statistics skills developed mostly in this program and a little bit of Power BI at work in the year before retirement. I also have SQL, PL/SQL, and general relational database skills as well as a software engineering background.

I'm also fairly open as to topic. Were you thinking a two or three person group? Let me know if you would like to work together.

  Comment from User 1327290:
  Hi Tanisha! If you're open to a group of three I'm in EST and would be interested in joining. 

Some Background on me is that I finished my undergraduate degree in Information Systems and Analytics in the spring of last year, and I am a full time OMSA student. I have experience in Python, SQL, Tableau, R, and I'm certified in Excel. Some ideas for a topic would be either in politics or maybe epidemiology. Let me know if you'd like to work together.

Thanks!

