Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1512035:
Time Zone: PST, live near Portland Oregon

Communication: Discord, text, or email preferred

Experience: math professor (also biology/coding/art teacher), web developer, artist, ran a zoology lab (mostly marine), ran a manufacturing business

Skills: strong math background (not amazing at statistics, but great at everything else), midrange Python (did well in CSE 6040), amazing at LaTeX, Jupyter, Desmos, great at writing/formatting and making everything look very nice, inexperienced at MATLAB

 Effort: I plan on putting a lot of effort into the project, finishing deliverables early, and helping my teammates. I would like to find a project we're all interested in, split up responsibilities, and mostly work independently on our sections.

Project Topic: I am interested in a biology or biomedicine topic, something related to education, gaming, recreational math, or open to suggestions.

  Comment from User 1230089:
  Hi Lauren,

Have you found yourself a team mate yet? 

Time Zone: PST, California (bay area)

Communication: Discord, whatsapp, email (michelefernandez@gatech.edu)

Skills: decent math background (quick learner, so I'll catch up), great with writing and formatting

Classes taken: 6501 (A), 6414 (A), 8803(A), 6040 (A)

Background: Used to be a pharmacist, completed research based masters in in-vivo research. 

Effort: Full-Time OMSA student

Project Topic: Happy to work with any data / fields for more exposure, biased towards healthcare/ biology dataset due to previous exposure to it.

Best, 
Michele

    Comment from User 1133606:
    Hi Michele and Lauren,

If you haven't formed a team yet...

Time Zone: EST, Georgia

Communication: whatsapp, email (rhutchins8@gatech.edu)

Skills: This is my 10th (last!) class in the OMSA program, and the only one I am taking this semester. Decent math background, intermediate at Python and R. Very organized

Background: Principal Research Scientist and Chief Engineer at Georgia Tech Research Institute, background in molecular biology and engineering. Previously worked at the CDC. Years of consulting experience.

Effort: This is my only class this semester, will put in the effort to do well as the topic directly relates to areas of interest for paid work as well

Project Topic: Would love to work on a biology related project, possibly epidemiology related as well. Open to healthcare dataset as well.

Best, 

Rebecca Hutchins

      Comment from User 1512035:
      That sounds awesome!

        Comment from User 1133606:
        Would you both like to form a group of 3 and close this thread?

          Comment from User 1512035:
          Sounds good. Are you comfortable communicating through a discord group chat?

            Comment from User 1133606:
            Sure, haven't used discord before, but I'm sure it's fine. I'll download the app

              Comment from User 1512035:
              Friend me on there as cnidaria0402 and I'll start a group chat. I like Discord because it's easy to customize notification settings and share images and files.

                Comment from User 1230089:
                sounds perfect! i'll add you guys on discord! certified_potato is my username

                  Comment from User 1133606:
                  my user name is akceb16, just sent you both friend requests

