Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1128217:
Hey Everyone!

Background: I'm Rishi Joseph and this will be my 8th course in the OMSA program. My background includes BS in Mechanical Engineering with a Minor in Data Science and am currently working as a Senior Manufacturing Engineer in the Biotech/Med Device Manufacturing Industry. I'm based out of Philadelphia, PA (EST) so would ideally like to form a group of 3 members that are all in EST but am open to other time zones as well! I'm comfortable with Python, R, SQL, and using Tableau and PowerBI to create visual dashboards. 

Project Topics: Interested in sports, stocks, manufacturing, and healthcare but open to others as well!

If you are interested in forming a team, please feel free to reach out by replying here or through my email at rjoseph78@gatech.edu!

  Comment from User 942845:
  Hi Rishi, if you are still looking for members, I would love to join your team!
This is my last course in the OMSA program in the computation track, aside from the practicum :)

Time Zone: CST (Dallas, TX)

Experience: I'm currently a data scientist at a lottery game company. Previously, I worked for Home Depot supporting marketing analytics. Collectively, I have 9 years of experience in analytics!

Communication: Teams, Email (melaniebonawitz@gatech.edu), happy to download another app though

Skills: Python, SQL, Tableau, R, Excel

Project Topic: Open to any topic, but very interested in something sports or stock related (listened to some interesting podcasts on how data science has affected sports betting and found it fascinating!)

    Comment from User 301842:
    Hi all, I'd love to join your team as well if you are still looking.

I am Vrinda and this is my 7th course in OMSA. 

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I'm currently a data analyst in Finance. Collectively, I have 4 years of experience in analytics!

Communication: Teams, Email (vnaik4@gatech.edu)

Skills: Python, SQL, Tableau, R, Excel

Project Topic: I am also open to any topic, my interests lie in supply chain, finance and tech.

