Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1229920:
Hi Everyone, I am looking for a group to join for project.

Time Zone: CST (Houston, TX)

Communication: Text/email/discord

Experience: I'm a data scientist in an engineering company. 

Skills: R, plotly.js, SQL, Python.

Availability: I work full time but can have meetings in the evening and on weekends.

  Comment from User 1271303:
  Hi Neha,

We are looking for a 3rd partner. Wanna team up?

Time Zone: CST. Wouldnt have any issues working with EST or PST team mates.

Communication: Discord, whatsapp, slack

Skills: Data Scientist with coding background in languages like Python, R, and SQL.

Classes taken: Basic and Advanced courses

Background: Data Scientist in Pharma industry. 8 years of experience

Effort: Part-Time OMSA student with a 9-5, but I can meet at any time during the day and every day.

Project Topic: Im good with anything you might be interested in. I have knowledge in clinical trials data.

Best, 
David

    Comment from User 1229920:
    Sure David, I'll be happy to join. Thanks.

      Comment from User 1271303:
      Hi Neha,

Im sorry, but we have already picked another classmate.

Best of lucks finding a team!

        Comment from User 1229920:
        ok David, Thanks.

  Comment from User 1133866:
  Hi Neha,

David referred me to your post. My name is Katherine (Jiayu) Yan and I would love to form a team together!

Time Zone: CST - Austin, Texas

Communication: Teams, Email - my email is jyan382@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, Java, C, R, SQL, Data Engineering, CS background (Bachelors Degree)

Experience: I am currently working as a Process Engineer in the Tech Industry and will rotate to a Data Science role within the same Tech company in the next month.

OMSA Program: This is my 8th class in the OMSA program.

Project Topic: I am happy to do whichever fields that the team is interested in doing.

Feel free to reach out to my email or DM me on Teams if we can form into one group!

    Comment from User 1229920:
    Hello Katherine, 
Thanks for reaching out, I am looking for a team.  sure I would love to be part of your team.

      Comment from User 625872:
      Hi Neha,

Katherine sent email to form the group with three of us. I replied.

Thanks,

Dwarakanath ( a.k.a. ND )

    Comment from User 625872:
    Hi Katherine and Neha,

If you still need a third member, I am looking to join your group. Please let me know. My email dnalamalapu3@gatech.edu. If your group filled already, Please let me know so that I will look around.

Time Zone: EST. Will work with CST or PST team mates without any issues.

Communication: Discord, whatsapp, slack

Skills: Systems Engineer with coding background. Languages like Python, R, Matlab, Latex and SQL which are learned in our course.

Classes taken: ISYE-6501, MGT-8803, CSE-6040, CS-6750, and CS-6400

Background: Computer Applications developer in transportation, Telecom, and banking industries. More than 20 years of experience.

Effort: Part-Time OMSA student with a 9-5 work day, and I can meet at any time during the weekends and every day evenings which you choose.

Project Topic: I am good with anything you both might be interested in. I will catchup with your ideas.

Best, 

Dwarakanath ( a.k.a ND )

