Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1229905:
Hi,

I'm Omar - this is my 4th semester and CDA is my 6th course. I am based in the EST time zone. I am pretty flexible in terms of communication. I am comfortable with both Python and R. My email is omasood3@gatech.edu.

  Comment from User 1512049:
  Hello Omar, My name is Thushar Garipalli. I am interested in joining a team for the group project. 

We can chat through whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). If interested, provide me with your phone number and I will add it to whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). Here is some info about me if you are interested:

I live in Atlanta, GA

I am certified in both Python and Tableau

I make sure myself and everyone is doing their fair share when it comes to projects

I am very through and a perfectionist/completionist and I also make sure the project is submitted (in case the group member is busy or computer crashes or forgot to do it)

I always make reminders on what/when to do things

  Comment from User 896205:
  Hello Omar and Thushar Vikram,

My name is Soyadev Devadoss. I currently reside in Atlanta, GA.
Email: sdevadoss6@gatech.edu
Time Zone: EST (My schedule is flexible).

Experience:
I am a full-time OMSA student, and this is my 6th course. I have previously taken MGT 8803, CSE 6040, and ISYE 6501. Additionally, I am currently enrolled in CSE 6242 (Data and Visual Analytics) and MGT 6203 (Data Analytics for Business).

Skills:
Python, R, SQL, Tableau, and Excel.

Communication Preference:
I’m comfortable with WhatsApp, Teams, or Email for communication, no specific preference.

Other:
I am open to any project topic and willing to invest ample time to contribute effectively to the group project. Looking forward to working with the team and collaborating for a successful project outcome!

Thank you,
Soyadev

