Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1512042:
Hi everyone, my name is Danny and I live in Delaware,

Communication: Whatsapp, Text, Discord, Anything else needed - super flexible.

My email is dtabach3@gatech.edu but it would be easier to work through gmail either through daniel.tabach007@gmail.com or danieltabach42@gmail.com

Experience: I'm currently a 2 YOE Data Scientist at JPMC (not finance oriented ;) ) My undergrad is in Computer Information Systems and I have 2 prior YOE at a startup where I worked as a data analyst as well. 

Skills: Python, SQL, R are the main languages I can use fluently. Worked with Latex before as well. 

Project Topic: Open to any and all topics - would love to branch out from what I already know and explore new opportunities.

  Comment from User 1512044:
  Hi Daniel,

I would like to form a group with you

Time Zone: EST - Maryland

Communication: Teams, texts, email,  Here's my email: vchupka3@gatech.edu

Skills: Work with Python, SQL, data viz tools (Tableau, PowerBi) on a daily basis for work. I was a Mathematics+ Business analytics/operations management in undergrad, so I have a strong math background. I did a number of courses in ML in undergrad and am excited to gain a deeper, mathematical understanding of the algorithms.

Experience: I've in data and reporting work at a consulting firm where I do a lot of work in data automation, synthetizes of data from multiple sources, and building out dashboards from complex data sources.

    Comment from User 1512042:
    Hi Victor! 
What is your availability like (Days you are most likely to be available to meet / collab)?

      Comment from User 1512044:
      Hi Daniel,

Free most M-Thu from 5:30/6PM-9:30/10 PM EST, and generally free all day Sunday  

-Victor

    Comment from User 506357:
    Hi Victor! Do you still need a third group member? I'm still looking for a team if you need a last person!

  Comment from User 962253:
  Hi Daniel,

I would like to form a group with you and Victor.

Time Zone: EST - New York

Communication: Discord or Teams - my email is khart44@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL, PowerBI, Tableau (better at PowerBI though), and LaTeX. 

Experience: I am currently working as a Data Scientist for a credit union. Previously I worked as a commissions analyst in insurance and an HR data analyst in employment law.

    Comment from User 1512042:
    Hi Kristen! 

What is your availability like (Days you are most likely to be available to meet / collab)?

      Comment from User 962253:
      I am free past 5pm on weekdays and fully open on the weekends!

        Comment from User 1512042:
        Lets connect ill send you an email!

  Comment from User 1325825:
  Hello Daniel,

My name is Dailu Hou, and I am in my second semester of the OMSA program. I am currently looking for a team member to collaborate with me and Yi for this project. I was wondering if you are interested in joining us.

Feel free to reach out to me at dhou30@gatech.edu.

Time Zone: I am flexible with EST, MST, or PST.

Communication: I prefer Discord, text, or email for coordination.

Experience:

I completed my undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech in Biomedical Engineering.

I currently work as a consultant for a healthcare company

Skills:

Strong math background

Proficient in Power BI, Tableau, and data visualization tools

Skilled in both Python and R

Project Topic: I am open to exploring any topic and excited to contribute to a meaningful project.

Best,

Dailu

    Comment from User 1512042:
    Hi Dailu! 
What is your availability like (Days you are most likely to be available to meet / collab)?

      Comment from User 1325825:
      Hi Daniel,

Thank you for getting back to me! My schedule is flexible, so I can meet at pretty much any time. Yi will also be available after 5 PM every day.

Looking forward to coordinating further!

Best,
Dailu

  Comment from User 896205:
  My name is Soyadev Devadoss. I currently reside in Atlanta, GA.
Email: sdevadoss6@gatech.edu
Time Zone: EST (My schedule is flexible).

Experience:
I am a full-time OMSA student, and this is my 6th course. I have previously taken MGT 8803, CSE 6040, and ISYE 6501. Additionally, I am currently enrolled in CSE 6242 (Data and Visual Analytics) and MGT 6203 (Data Analytics for Business).

Skills:
Python, R, SQL, Tableau, and Excel.

Communication Preference:
I’m comfortable with WhatsApp, Discord, or Email for communication, no specific preference.

Other:
I am open to any project topic and willing to invest ample time to contribute effectively to the group project. Looking forward to working with the team and collaborating for a successful project outcome!

Thank you,
Soyadev

