Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 979061:
Hi everyone, my name is Albert and I'm based in San Francisco (PST).

Communication: Whatever is needed, my email is aliu443@gatech.edu

Experience: I'm an AI/ML dev at a consulting firm currently working a lot with LLMs and building LLM applications. This is my 9th course in the program. I have an undergraduate degree in Biomedical Engineering.

Skills: Python is the main language I use for work. Although I am comfortable with SQL and R as well. I have used LaTex to write research papers in the past. 

Project Topic: Open to any suggestions!

  Comment from User 1229645:
  Hi Albert!

Sounds like you have some interesting experience. My name is Eli and I'm also in PST (Sacramento). I would be interested in working together and am flexible. See below for some more details.

Time Zone: PST

Communication: Discord, slack, email, etc. (rsarabia@gatech.edu)

Skills: Data Analyst/Business Analyst with coding background in languages like Python, R, SQL, Javascript

Classes taken: Basic and Advanced courses

Background: Data Analyst in Semiconductor industry and now Business Analyst in Education. 6 years of experience

Effort: Part-Time OMSA student with a 9-5, but I can meet at any time during the day and pretty much everyday.

Project Topic: Open to suggestions! I have an interest in Audio Data and Deep Learning but have nothing specific in mind as of now.

  Comment from User 805459:
  Hi Albert,

My name is Sid and I'm also in PST (Sacramento as well). I would be interested in working together and am flexible. 

Time Zone: PST

Communication: Discord, slack, email, etc. (vgrandhi3@gatech.edu)

Skills: Data Scientist with coding background in languages like Python, R, SQL

Classes taken: This is my 7th course in the program. I have a Masters in Product Management

Background: Data Scientist in Retail Media Network working on measurement science. 8 years of experience

Project Topic: Open to suggestions.

