Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1333021:
Hi everyone! My name is Ashleigh and I live in EST. I am living in atlanta on campus for the semester and am available anytime besides weekdays from 3:30-7:00 pm because I run on the track team here at tech! I have worked as a data science intern for a sports analytics company and will be moving into the CPG industry as a data science intern for Kroger. I have always been someone to pull my weight and then some in group projects so would love to find some people will the same mindset. 

email me! aprugh3@gatech.edu.

  Comment from User 0:
  

    Comment from User 1229943:
    Hi Ashleigh - I’d like to join your group. I'm in NJ and I work for a global financial firm as a Sr. Data Analyst. This is my 6th course/ 2nd year. Skills: Alteryx, Python, SQL, Hadoop...

rromulus3@gatech.edu

  Comment from User 1230259:
  Hello Ashleigh and Rinaldi, 

My name is Marco Vittozzi and I was wondering if you had another spot in your group! 
I live in NY (EST timezone) and this will be my sixth course in the program (previously taken CSE 6040, ISYE 6501, MGT 8803, MGT 6203, and ISYE 6644). 

I have an undergrad degree in Industrial Engineering and I am focusing on the program full time. I am open to any form of communication, preferably whatsapp or discord. I am skilled in python, R, excel, and I have a working knowledge of SQL. I am open to any project topic, but my preference would be in sports, finance, the stock market, or supply chain. 

My email is mvittozzi3@gatech.edu

Looking forward to a great semester!

