Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 136318:
Hi everyone, I'm looking for a project team! 

Name: Michael Tang

Location: New York, NY

Academic Experience:  Previously graduated from OMSCS and OMS Cyber. This is my 4th OMSA courses & 22nd OMS courses in total. Relevant courses taken: ML, DL, NLP, CV, AI, ML4T, DVA

Work Experience: 6yr full time experience, currently working as a quant in a financial firm, previously worked as quant / software engineer in banks / hedge funds / FAANG tech firms. 

Timezone: US Eastern, (OK with any US time zones)

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Tableau, ML, CV, NLP, etc.

Topic idea: Quite open, but slightly tilted towards financial industry.

Feel free to reply or send me an email at ytang352@gatech.edu if you're interested

  Comment from User 962094:
  Hi Michael,

I am interested in joining your project team! I am located in Atlanta Georgia so our time zones would align. This is my 7th course in the program and have taken all of the core, advanced core, and the regression analysis course. 

I am currently a senior data analyst for home depot and primarily work with supply chain data but do have an interest in the financial sector which is why I would love to team up with you. 

I am also taking the Machine learning for trading course this semester which I believe I would be able to apply some of that knowledge to our project ( if we decide to do a project in the financial industry)

I also currently work from home so my availability would be pretty open for the most part. Let me know if you would like to work together.

Thanks!

    Comment from User 1512056:
    Franklyn,

Do you mind sending me your email? Will start forming a group chat for us to communicate.

      Comment from User 962094:
      My email is fcruz32@gatech.edu

  Comment from User 1512056:
  Hi Michael and Franklyn

Saw Michael’s reply to my message yesterday, would be good to form the team with the 3 of us. Let me know!

    Comment from User 962094:
    I am all for forming a group with us three!

      Comment from User 136318:
      Sounds good to me.

    Comment from User 136318:
    sounds good to me.

