Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1230145:
Hi everyone, my name is Tim and I'm living in New Jersey


Time Zone: EST

Communication: Teams, texts, emaill, whatever works! Heres my email: tnasralla3@gatech.edu

Experience: I work right now as a Data Analyst for a healthcare company, and this is my 6th class so far. My undergraduate degree is in Mathematics and outside of math theory I'm a big fan of Python, R, and SQL, with a basic background in LaTeX from undergrad research. 

Project Topic: I'd love to work on any topic that can be meaningful. In my personal time I've worked with stock analytics and biomedical analytics, but open to any areas of interest!

  Comment from User 896164:
  Hi Timothy!  I am interested in forming a group with you if you are interested.

I am in South Carolina, so same EST time zone.

Communications: Teams, open to anything as well. pbritt3@gatech.edu

Experience: Digital Solutions Manager for an industrial manufacturing company. Undergrad degree is in Electrical Engineering. Python is my preferred language, but can work in R as well.  This is my 7th class so far.

Project Topic: Open to any meaningful, interesting project that allows me to apply what I've learned and continue to grow my skills.

FYI, I have young children, so preferred meeting time is 9 PM or later, or on weekends, but can accommodate earlier times if needed.

    Comment from User 1271303:
    Hi Paul and Timothy,
Are you interested in forming a group us 3? I am also looking for group project team mates

Time Zone: CST. Wouldnt have any issues working with EST or PST team mates.

Communication: Discord, whatsapp, slack, etc.

Skills: Data Scientist with coding background in languages like Python, R, and SQL.

Classes taken: Basic and Advanced courses

Background: Data Scientist in Pharma industry. 8 years of experience

Effort: Part-Time OMSA student with a 9-5, but I can meet at any time during the day and every day.

Project Topic: Im good with anything you might be interested in. I have knowledge in clinical trials data.

Best, 
David

      Comment from User 896164:
      Hi David! I am good with making this group.

        Comment from User 1271303:
        Hey Paul,

Timothy didnt answer, but no worries. I got us another member. We got the team rolling now.

I sent you an email

