Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1133912:
Hi, my name is Kitaek and I am looking for a team to join :)

Professional Experience: Biz/Tech Consulting at Big 4
--> Worked on various projects and deliverables for big corporate clients

Skills: 
- Drafting proposals, documents, and presentation slides
- Midrange proficiency in Python and SQL

Timezone: KST (Korea, EST+14, UTC+9)
--> I do not have a problem working in any timezone.

Program Progress Status: This is my 7th class

Please feel free to reach out to me at klee875@gatech.edu or ktlee927@gmail.com

Thank you.

  Comment from User 307257:
  Hi Kitaek, 

let me know if you're interested in forming a team!

Details: Currently work as an analyst in tech sector but open up to any topic. For my practicum, my team analyzed telematic data and used machine models to provide solution to the company. 

Time Zone: PST

Preferred Communication: Text or email (Xinyinglu14@gmail.com)

Experience: 3 Years Data Analyst for tech, data visualization and modeling

Skills: Proficient in Python and SQL

Topic Interest: Open to various topics.

    Comment from User 307038:
    Hi Xinying and Kitaek! 

I am still looking for a team to join, are you guys interested in teaming up? 

Details: I am a data scientist at MLS and am interested in Sports or Healthcare for the project, but open to other areas!

Time Zone: EST but open to other timezones!

Email: sdharmasankar@gmail.com

Experience: Data Scientist for 7 years

Skills: Proficient in Python and SQL

Topic Interest: Open to topics

