Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1133602:
Hi all! 

My name is Justin. I live in Phoenix, AZ, and I currently work as a data scientist / energy demand forecaster for a major utility company. I'm looking to work on something related to the energy sector (more details below). Please reach out if you're interested in learning more about me and interested in possibly working together! 

Time Zone: Mountain Standard Time (Phoenix, AZ)

Communication: Ed, Slack, Teams, FaceTime, Email, Phone,

Experience: Currently work as a data scientist forecasting energy demand for a major utility company. Previous experience in data analytics in emergency management. Undergraduate degree in Econ and Math. Graduated Highest Honors.

Classes taken: ISYE 6501, CSE 6040, ISYE 6644 (Simulation), ISYE 6420 (Bayes), ISYE 6203 - As in all

Skills: Proficient in Python (NumPy, Pandas, several other packages), SQL, Tableau / Power BI, and Microsoft Office Suite (including advanced Excel). Also strong with R but may take me a minute to get back into the swing of things with that language. Strong quantitative / mathematical background in general. 

Project Topic: I am interested in just about anything related to the energy sector - forecasting energy demand, optimizing generation resources, analyzing renewable energy resources (e.g., solar and wind), etc. I'm also interested in the intersection of public utilities and emergency management such as using machine learning algorithms to better plan for and mitigate disasters such as the wildfires we are sadly seeing in Southern California right now. (I think some image detection algorithms could be applied here? Not too familiar with the tech at the moment, but it interests me.)

  Comment from User 814094:
  Hi Justin,

I hope you're doing well! My name is Phillip, and I’d love to join your team.

Background:

Time Zone: CST (Dallas, TX)

Communication: Microsoft Teams, FaceTime, Email, Phone, Slack

Experience: I’m currently working as a Petroleum Engineer and applying machine learning techniques to various projects. I have a strong quantitative background and am currently in my 7th class in the OMSA program.

Skills: Proficient in Python, MATLAB, R, and well-versed in machine learning.

Project Interests: I’m interested in anything energy-related, including forecasting, optimization, and renewable energy analysis, and I’m open to exploring other topics as well.

I think my experience and skills would complement your project focus, and I’m excited about the opportunity to collaborate on something impactful in the energy sector.

Feel free to reach out to me at pmcelroy3@gatech.edu. Looking forward to hearing from you!

Best regards,

Phil

    Comment from User 1127974:
    Hi Justin and Phil,

I'd love to work with both of y'all. I'm based in CST and work for an electric utility, so this sounds like a good fit all around.

Time Zone: CST - San Antonio, TX

Typical Study Hours: 6p - 9p during the week and open on weekends

Communication: Text, Email, Teams, or Slack preferred - my email is apesina3@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Stats Undergrad

Experience: I work as a data analyst for an electric utility with a primary focus on predictive analytics. 

OMSA Program: This is my 7th class in the OMSA program.

      Comment from User 1133602:
      Sent you and Phillip an email just now.

    Comment from User 1133602:
    Thank you, Phil and Austin. I will email you both shortly.

