Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 682243:
Hi All,

This is my 9th class in OMSA. I previously have a Masters in the geospatial science from Georgia State University. I am open to any group that is EST or CST, however, would prefer an Atlanta based group if there is any. email-rrimal3@gatech.edu

·Time Zone: EST, Atlanta based

·Communication: WhatsApp, Text, Slack, Teams

·Experience: Working as a Geospatial Intelligence Lead in Retail Industry

·Skills: SQL, Python, R, Tableau, PowerBI, Azure ML

·Effort: I put huge effort into the project and task. Taking only one course so that I can fully focus on this one. A Team player and always love feedback and sharing ideas.

·Project Topic: Open to creative IDEAS. After all it is teamwork. Otherwise, I also have a few ideas in mind we can discuss and brainstorm. 

Thank You!

  Comment from User 1229920:
  Hi Rukumani, I am in Houston, Texas. If you still have availability then I would love to join your group.

  Comment from User 962067:
  Hi Rukumani, this is my 7th course in OMSA. I'm based in California but work CST hours, so am open to working CST hours for the project! Let me know if you're still looking for teammates!

    Comment from User 682243:
    Hi Mansi, Thank you for reaching out. Yes, I am still looking for the teammate. Thank You

Get Outlook for iOS<https://aka.ms/o0ukef>

      Comment from User 682243:
      Please Join Team Project 44.

  Comment from User 652074:
  Hello Rukumani,

I am in Houston, TX(CST) , and I want to check if your team still have any available spot. It's my 8th class. I am very flexable on weekend and always available to have meeting after 9:00pm (CST) or before 8:00pm (CST).  I have health informatics background. I am open to all project topic. Please let me know if we can team up. My email is :xwang3144@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 682243:
    Please join Team project 044. I joined this group.

  Comment from User 318771:
  Hello, I am based in Atlanta, GA (EST timezone) and would be happy to join. Is a spot still open?

This is my 8th course in OMSA, and I have been a working professional for over decade. I have expertise in Databricks, Python, PowerBI and other data analytics tools/technologies.

I am open to any topic for the project, and normally I am free during the evenings. I do travel a lot for work but this should not get in the way for me to join the calls.

Let me know if I can join this team? I can be reached at adarsh.gupta@gatech.edu

Thanks!

