Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1229937:
Hi, i am Desmond from Singapore. Looking to form a project team. Please email me to get in touch! 

Time Zone: Singapore (SGT)

Communication: Whatsapp, email (dlow8@gatech.edu)

Skills: Python, Visualisation, ML techniques, Computer Vision etc.

Background: Data Analyst

Effort: This is my only course this semester

Project Topic: Lets discuss and brainstorm together! 🤝

  Comment from User 1325825:
  Hi Desmond,

My name is Dailu Hou, and I am in my second semester of the OMSA program. I am currently looking for a team member to collaborate with me and Yi for this project. I was wondering if you are interested in joining us.

Feel free to reach out to me at dhou30@gatech.edu.

Time Zone: I am flexible with EST, MST, or PST.



Communication: I prefer Discord, text, or email for coordination.

Experience:

I completed my undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech in Biomedical Engineering.

I currently work as a consultant for a healthcare company

Skills:

Strong math background

Proficient in Power BI, Tableau, and data visualization tools

Skilled in both Python and R

Project Topic: I am open to exploring any topic and excited to contribute to a meaningful project.

Best,
Dailu

    Comment from User 506357:
    Hi Dailu! Do you still need a third member? I'm also skilled in Python and R and am proficient in Tableau (have some experience with Power BI) and also know how to use other various visualization tools. I would love to join your team and contribute! I'm on EST but am very flexible as I am a full time student. 

My email is nhavanur6@gatech.edu

  Comment from User 1321233:
  Hi Desmond,

My name is Ian. 

If you haven't formed a project team yet, I would like to discuss forming a group with you.

My email: ihuang39@gatech.edu

Time Zone: EST (My schedule is flexible - I am willing to work with any time zone).

Experience: I'm currently a full-time OMSA student. I was a physician in Singapore, headed the IT work group and lead a medical prescription error quality improvement project.

Communication: WhatsApp, Discord, Email, no specific preference.

Skills: I am most familiar with Python, Tableau, R, SQL, Excel.

Other: This is my 4th/5th course. I have taken MGT8803, CSE 6040, and ISYE 6501. I am also taking CSE 6242 this semester. Otherwise, I will have ample time to invest in the project.

Project Topic: Open to any and all topics.

    Comment from User 1229937:
    Hi Ian,

I have dropped you an email.

  Comment from User 1310408:
  Hi Desmond and classmates,

I'm Yanni from Chengdu, China. I worked in Singapore and US before moving to China. I'm looking for teammates!

Time Zone: CST (UTC+8; China Standard Time) I prefer someone in similar time zone (+-3hr)

Experience: I have background in investment and medical industry. I currently work as regional head in a medical group, overseeing 7 medical institutions in the area.

Communication: Flexible with tools

Skills: 

familiar with python, excel (did pretty well in CSE6040)

Strong business background

Experience work on AI application in biz side; I currently collaborate with a AI company in Beijing as their industry expert

Other: Native speaker of Korean and Mandarine; familiar with Japanese

Project Topic: Open to any topics

    Comment from User 1229937:
    Hi Yanni,

Do drop me an email at dlow8@gatech.edu if you are keen to join!

Thanks

Desmond

