Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1325825:
Hello everyone,

My name is Dailu Hou, and I am in my second semester of the OMSA program. I am currently looking for an open team to collaborate with for this project. My email is dhou30@gatech.edu.

Time Zone: I am flexible with EST, MST, or PST.
Communication: I prefer Discord, text, or email for coordination.

Experience:

I completed my undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech in Biomedical Engineering.

I currently work as a consultant for a healthcare company

Skills:

Strong math background

Proficient in Power BI, Tableau, and data visualization tools

Skilled in both Python and R

Project Topic: I am open to exploring any topic and excited to contribute to a meaningful project.

Best,
Dailu

  Comment from User 1022036:
  Hi, Dailu, 

I’m interested in working together, and looking for one more member to join. I’m in EST but flexible with meeting times. My email is ydeng333@gatech.edu. Discord, text, or email are all fine. 

This is my 10th course in the OMSA program, and I plan to complete the practicum and graduate this summer. My main background is in the humanities, and I am good at researching.

I am also open regarding the project topic. 

Yi

    Comment from User 1133282:
    Hi Yi,

Do you still have an available spot? I'm at EST as well. My email is sxiao72@gatech.edu.

This is my second semester in the OMSA program. My background is in engineering.

I'm also open to any project topic.

Alex

      Comment from User 1022036:
      Hi, Alex, 

Thank you for your interest, and I apologize for the late response. I am afraid that the group is locked. 

Best wishes for your studies!

Sincerely, 

Yi

  Comment from User 1512049:
  Hello everyone, My name is Thushar Garipalli. I am interested in joining a team for the group project. 


We can chat through whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). If interested, provide me with your phone number and I will add it to whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). Here is some info about me if you are interested:

I live in Atlanta, GA

I am certified in both Python and Tableau

I make sure myself and everyone is doing their fair share when it comes to projects

I am very through and a perfectionist/completionist and I also make sure the project is submitted (in case the group member is busy or computer crashes or forgot to do it)

I always make reminders on what/when to do things

  Comment from User 962021:
  Hi there! I'm  Suganya Natarajan, based in Atlanta. Would like to be part of the team. About me :  

This is my 7th course in OMSA. 

Working as Principal Data Engineer in Banking Domain  AI/ML Enablement. Also have 10+ yrs experience in Retail Industry as a Data Engineer.  

I'm flexible with communication channel and work timings .

I'm strong in Python and looking forward to learn MATLAB.

I'm interested in Agentic AI workflows and open to project topics .

    Comment from User 787394:
    Hi everyone. My name is Makrand Kalyankar. I am situated in NJ. 

Suganya, Agentic AI workflows project will be a challenging but will be a great learning.  Happy to explore if you are game.

Time Zone: EST 

Experience: Data engineer with background in finance/software and retail domain. with over 20+ experience. 

Communication: WhatsApp, Teams, Email, Discord

Skills: Python, SQL, some R. 

Other: This is my only course this semester

Project Topic: Open to any and all topics.

      Comment from User 962021:
      Hi Makrand, Please let me know if you would like to team up. Thanks for reaching out. We are a two member team now and open for a third team mate.

