Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1333011:
Hi Fellow Classmate, 
I am looking for a group interested in exploring some medical dataset or some environment related dataset. However, I am flexible to other interesting topics as well. 

Time Zone: PST (but can coordinate with other timezones as well)

Communication: Anything

Background: PhD in ChemE, 3rd course in OMSA 

Strength: very comfortable with python, maths, and researching.

Project topic: medical dataset or some environment related dataset preferred but open to to other topics as well.

Please email me or reply here if you are interested. 

Email ID: nraj9@gatech.edu

Regards,

Nikhil Raj

  Comment from User 1512037:
  Hi Nikhil! I'm looking for a teammate to work as a group of 2.

Time Zone: PST (Mountain View, CA). CST and EST should work fine as well.



Communication: Whatsapp preferred but open to anything (Email/Slack/Discord etc)



Background: B.E. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering. This is my 6th course in OMSA and I have 4.5 years of experience working as a Data Engineer in Bay Area Startups, F500s and AI Consultancies. I have solid background working in Data visualization, Data Analytics & ML, Data Engineering , and Database Administration & Management. My main strengths and python and SQL but I work with C and JavaScript too. 



Project topic: Something fun, interesting, or good for resume. Open to suggestions as well :)



Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kriti-rajesh/


Note: I am taking a break this semester to fully focus on OMSA and have ample time to focus on the course.

Let me know what topics you're interested in as well! You'll get a teammate who is easy to work with and puts in a lot of effort. You can email me kbapnad3@gatech.edu or reply below. Apologize in advance if I have picked up someone's format (I came across it and liked the presentation but all details are authentic).

