Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 805457:
Hi folks: 

Name: Ben Nadler

Location: Atlanta, GA. 

OMSA Experience: This is class #7 for me. Completed all 3 core requirements, the 2 advanced requirements, and the Regression Analysis elective. 

Work Experience: 25+ years of IT/technology consulting across multiple industries 

Timezone: EST and prefer weekends and evenings.

Skills: Python, data modeling, SQL, Excel, R

Topic idea: Predicting voting likelihood in future elections but open to other ideas as well

I'd like to create/join a group and hoping to have at least one other local person if possible, but not required. LMK if you are interested in joining a group with me.

  Comment from User 1327290:
  Good evening Benjamin. I'm located just outside of Atlanta too! I finished my undergraduate degree in Information Systems and Analytics in the spring of last year, and I am a full time OMSA student. Before picking that as my major, I had considered going into political science, so I love your idea! I have experience in Python, SQL, Tableau, R, and I'm certified in Excel. Let me know if you'd like to work together.

Thanks!

    Comment from User 805457:
    Easton,

Great! Let's do it. I'll message you on Email or Teams later.

And we can see if one other person wants to join.

  Comment from User 652074:
  Hello Benjamin,

I am in Houston, TX(CST) , and I would like to check if your team still have any available spot. It's my 8th class. I am very flexable on weekend and always available to have meeting after 9:00pm (CST) or before 8:00pm (CST).  I have health informatics background. I am open to all project topic. Please let me know if we can team up. My email is :xwang3144@gatech.edu

