Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1151733:
Hello! My name is Kenji, and I live in California. I'm looking to form a project group, please leave a comment if you are interested in forming a team and think we'd be a good match!


Experience: I work as a Data Scientist in Analytics at Airbnb. This is my 8th course in OMSA.

Communication: Text, whatsapp, slack, discord

Time Zone: PST (US) - I'm generally available most evenings and during the day on weekends 

Skills: Python, SQL, Project Management

Project Topic: Open to any topics.

  Comment from User 319243:
  Hi Kenji! I'd be interested in forming a team with you.

Experience: Working as a Data Engineer and this is my 9th course (also taking Regression this semester)

Communication: Text, GroupMe, Discord, etc.

Time Zone: CST (US) - Available most evenings and weekends

Skills: Python, R, SQL

Project Topic: Open to any topics.

Let me know if you'd like to work together (reply on this post or via email: shakani7@gatech.edu ). Thanks!

  Comment from User 810555:
  Hi Kenji 

I am from South Africa (GMT+2) but I think the time difference could work well with your evenings being my mornings. 

Experience: Independent consultant for data analytics & research. I have a background in the medical industry and experience in publishing academic articles. 

Communication: Open to anything, Whatsapp preferred 

Time Zone: GMT+2 - meetings during your evenings would work great 

Skills: R, Python, SQL, academic writing 

Project Topic: Open to any topics.

My email is kgreenwood@gatech.edu

  Comment from User 962357:
  Hi, I would like to join in your group if available. My name is Jennie Jeong, and I am based in Atlanta.

Experience: I have worked as a supply chain analyst in the aerospace industry for many years and hold a BS in Mathematics and Statistics. This is my 8th course in the OMSA program.

Communication: I am available via Teams, WhatsApp, Email (kjeong43@gatech.edu), text, or any other platform that works for the team.

Time Zone: EST (US) – I’m generally available most evenings and nights on weekdays, and anytime on weekends.

Skills: R, Python, SQL, Statistics

Project Topic: Open to any topics.

Thanks!

