Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 962316:
Hi everyone! I am looking for teammates or to join a team, here is some information about me:



Time Zone: CST - Chicago

Typical Study Hours: I usually study all day Sunday, and then after work M-W as needed. 

Communication: Text or Email preferred - my email is nhellmer3@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Math background (Bachelors Degree)

Experience: I am currently working as a Data Analytics consultant in the data governance and controls space. 

OMSA Program: This is my 7th class in the OMSA program.

Project Topic: I am looking to focus on either music (like music matching algorithms and/or music sharing), or sports (predictive analytics).

  Comment from User 896320:
  Hi Nicholas,

Both of your topics of choice sound interesting and I would love to join your team if you have an open spot.

Time Zone: EST - Located east of Philadelphia, PA in NJ. 

Typical Study Hours: After 7pm EST Mon-Thurs and weekends as needed.

Communication: Text, Email, Slack, Zoom, etc...no preference. Email is tfindley3@gatech.edu

Skills: R, SQL, Python

Experience: I work as a DB Manager for an e-commerce company. I also have experience working part time for two separate sports analytics companies. 

OMSA Program: This is my 8th class in the OMSA program.

  Comment from User 1512058:
  Hey Nicholas,

I'm very excited about all sports analytics and also enjoy the idea of a music matching algorithm. If you are looking for another partner, I'd love to join as well!

Time Zone: CT - Chicago, IL

Typical Study Hours: After 5 CT on weekdays and a half day of the weekend

Communication: Text, email, slack, zoom - email: tguerrettaz3@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL with a math/stat Bachelors

Experience: I currently work as a Trade Data Analyst primarily working in R and SQL 

OMSA Program: This is my 4th class in the OMSA program.

  Comment from User 1512055:
  Hey Nicholas,

I would love to do something related to music. Let me know if you still didn't find enough partners yet! 


Time Zone: UTC-3 - São Paulo

Typical Study Hours: After 8pm on weekdays and weekends as needed

Communication: Email, Zoom, WhatsApp - email: liviaa.mlopes@gmail.com (I prefer using my personal email as I check it more often)

Skills: Python, C, SQL and PysPark with a Math Bachelors and a Data Science/AI specialization.

Experience: I've been working as a Data Scientist in the financial market in the past 3 and a half years. Before that, I worked as a Data Analyst in the same industry.

OMSA Program: This is my 2nd class in the OMSA program.

