Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1491907:
Hi Everyone, I am looking for a group to join for project. 

My Email: frashid30@gatech.edu

Time Zone: PST(San Diego) or Any

Communication: Text/email/discord/Whatsapp

Experience: I have 4 years of experience as a full stack developer (Backend,Frontend and databases)

Skills: R, SQL, Python, C#, Azure, PowerBI. Previous Courses: CSE 6040,  ISYE 6501.. And taking 2 courses this semester.

Availability: I don't work full time right now so can have meetings anytime

  Comment from User 1333011:
  Hi Faazia, 

My name is Nikhil and I am interested in forming a team with you. I am mostly interested in exploring health related or environment related topic. However, if there is any other topic that you find are more interesting then I am open to other ideas. Do you have availability in your team?

I am a PhD in ChemE and so far I have taken 2 courses in OMSA program. I live in Southern California. 

I have strong skills in python and maths as well as in research so I would be be able to contribute well to the project. Thanks and let me know. 

Regards,

Nikhil Raj

  Comment from User 962357:
  Hi, I would like to join in your group if any spot available. My name is Jennie Jeong, and I am based in Atlanta.

Experience: I have worked as a supply chain analyst in the aerospace industry for many years and hold a BS in Mathematics and Statistics. This is my 8th course in the OMSA program.

Communication: I am available via Teams, WhatsApp, Email (kjeong43@gatech.edu), text, or any other platform that works for the team.

Time Zone: EST (US) – I’m generally available most evenings and nights on weekdays, and anytime on weekends.

Skills: R, Python, SQL, Power BI, Statistics

Thanks!

