Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 679048:
Hello everyone, Abhi here! Hope everyone had a wonderful start to the new year. I loved the format below (Thank you to whoever started the chain!), so I am going to pull that format for myself too.



Time Zone: Based out of Dallas, TX, so I am in Central Time, but I am flexible with EST, MST or PST

Communication: Discord, text, or email preferred

Experience: This is my second masters, and have a Bachelors in Mechanical with Masters in Industrial Engineering. Comfortable with Stats/Math. I am currently a Product Manager for a federal utility company, but in the past have worked as a management consultant in O&G, Tech and Retail areas

Skills: 

Strong Math background 

Strong at PowerBI/Tableau/Visualization

Good in both Python and R

 Effort: I have a newborn, so for me structure will be extremely essential. I will be trying to get as much done and contribute the maximum on or if possible, earlier than the required time. I love to participate in lively discussion, and am glad to lead and/or follow as needed within the group.

Project Topic: Due to my diverse background, I can work with a lot of topics here and am open to all topics.

  Comment from User 663378:
  Hi! My name is Bradley, I'm reaching out because I'm a consulting mechanical engineer in building sciences, we do a lot of demand-side energy stuff, so it sounds like we're coming from similar backgrounds!


I'm coming back from a year away from the program, but I'm currently in my 8th and 9th courses. I'm in MST (Denver) but have flexibility to meet when it makes sense.


Email: bgrant43@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 679048:
    Hi Bradley! This sounds perfect! I will email you back but will keep this chain open if someone else wants to join us. 

I will set up some time for a virtual meet-up for us soon!

  Comment from User 787394:
  Hi Abhijit/Bradley 

My name is Makrand Kalyankar. I am situated in NJ. 

Are you still looking for 3rd partner for your project team? 

Bit about myself:

Time Zone: EST 

Experience: Data engineer with background in finance/software and retail domain. with over 20+ experience. 

Communication: WhatsApp, Teams, Email, Discord

Skills: Python, SQL, some R. 

Other: This is my only course this semester

Project Topic: Open to any and all topics.

    Comment from User 679048:
    Hi Makrand, 

Thank you for reaching out! I am good with calling it a team and having the three of us work together. I think this sets us for the project.

