Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1233530:
Hi all, I am looking for team members for the project. Please reach out if you might be interested in working together. 

Time Zone: EST, in Boston, MA

Communication: Text or email. Usually easiest to meet after 5 or 6 PM EST or on weekends.

Experience: Equity research - fundamental analysis of stocks

Skills: Python and R. This is my 7th course in the program.  

Project Topic: I am very interested in investing and would like to do something related to stocks or bonds. Economics or sports could also be areas of interest.

  Comment from User 1230031:
  Hi Daniel,

Rahim (rlalani8@gatech.edu) and I (ychoi450@gatech.edu) are looking for another member to join our team and were wondering if you’d be interested! We're both passionate about sports-related projects but are open to exploring other ideas as well.

Our timezone is CST, but we’re excited to collaborate with teammates from different timezones. We both have a strong foundation in Python, R, and SQL, having completed at least five relevant courses so far.

Let me know if this sounds like something you’d like to be part of—we’d love to have you on board!

    Comment from User 1233530:
    Apologies, but I had already joined another team. Thank you for reaching out though.

  Comment from User 1133886:
  Hi Daniel, 


I would be very much interested in the topics of stock analysis. Please let me know if I can join you. 

Time Zone: CST, in Houston, TX

Communication: Text or email, Ahatsapp

Experience: Data Analyst, Customer Analysis, and Pricing and Margin Optimization

Skills: Python and R, SQL. This is my 6th course in the program. 

Email: Shayansabahi@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 1233530:
    Sorry about that, I have already joined another team. Thank you expressing interest.

