Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1491925:
Hi class,

This is my 3rd class in OMSA (CSE6040 and ISYE6501). I previously studied Information Systems and Analytics for my undergrad. I currently live in Dallas, TX, and I am open to any group that is EST or CST. My email is tnguyen853@gatech.edu

Time Zone: CST (Dallas, TX)

Communication: Slack, Discord

Experience: Currently working as a senior data analyst at a fintech company (trading platform).

Skills: Python, SQL, R, Looker, etc.

Effort: I always take ownership and put effort into my work. I love learning and to be a team player.

Project topic: I am more interested in financial, trading and especially blockchain projects. 

If you need another passionate teammate for your team, please reach out to me via email or reply to my post. Thank you!

  Comment from User 1128057:
  Hi Tana,

I am in Houston, Texas and will love to team up with you if you still have availability. I have an engineering background and this is my 7th course. I also take ownership of my tasks, work hard and always deliver on time. Thank you.

    Comment from User 1491925:
    Hi Rashidat, I saw you posted in a couple of teams' posts and was wondering if you have found your team yet. Let me know!

  Comment from User 652074:
  Hello Tana,

I am in Houston, TX(CST) , and I want to check if your team still have any available spot. It's my 8th class. I am very flexable on weekend and always available to have meeting after 9:00pm (CST) or before 8:00pm (CST).  I have health informatics background. I am open to all project topic. Please let me know if we can team up. My email is :xwang3144@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 1491925:
    Hi Xueling, I saw you posted in a couple of teams' posts and was wondering if you have found your team yet. Let me know!

      Comment from User 652074:
      Hello Tana, 

Thanks for your reply. I am still looking for a team to work on the project together. I am willing to team up if your team still have available spot.

        Comment from User 1491925:
        Great. Let's team up.

          Comment from User 652074:
          That sounds great! Do we have any team number I can join in?  

Let's email each other.

  Comment from User 1512038:
  Hi Tana, 
I saw your post and would love to express my interest in joining your team. I’m based in NJ (EST), and I’m flexible with CST time zone as needed, so I believe we’d be aligned on availability. A bit about me: I’m currently an Analytics Engineer at a tech company. I did my bachelor's in business analytics and my technical skills include Python, SQL, Power BI, and R. This is my 3rd course (just like you lol). I’m organized, detail-oriented, and enjoy both leading discussions and contributing as an active team member. I’d love the opportunity to join your team! Here's my email: bpatel351@gatech.edu

    Comment from User 1491925:
    Hi Bhakti, awesome. I will add you to the Teams group.

