Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1512038:
Hi everyone, Bhakti here! 


Here's a bit about me:

Time Zone: EST – Based out of NJ, but I’m flexible with CST and PST as needed.

Communication: I’m comfortable with text or email – whatever works best for the group. Here's my email: bpatel351@gatech.edu

Experience: I’m currently working as an Analytics Engineer, where I work on automating data processes, streamlining workflows, improving forecasting models, and conducting churn analysis. Previously, I worked as a Data Analyst, where I specialized in transforming data into actionable insights and automating manual reporting processes. My technical skills include Python, SQL, Power BI, and R.

Effort: I’m organized, detail-oriented, and proactive in setting milestones to keep the team on track. I enjoy both leading discussions and collaborating as an active member.

Project Topics: I’d love to work on a project that pushes me to learn something new and open to any topic! Some ideas I have in mind include ecommerce sales and customer analysis, sentiment analysis, marketing analytics.

  Comment from User 1325825:
  Hello Patel,

My name is Dailu Hou, and I am in my second semester of the OMSA program. I am currently looking for an open team to collaborate with for this project. My email is dhou30@gatech.edu.

Time Zone: I am flexible with EST, MST, or PST.

Communication: I prefer Discord, text, or email for coordination.

Experience:

I completed my undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech in Biomedical Engineering.

I currently work as a consultant for a healthcare company

Skills:

Strong math background

Proficient in Power BI, Tableau, and data visualization tools

Skilled in both Python and R

Project Topic: I am open to exploring any topic and excited to contribute to a meaningful project.

Best,
Dailu

  Comment from User 1512049:
  Hello Bhakti, My name is Thushar Garipalli. I am interested in joining a team for the group project. If interested, provide me with your phone number and I will add it to whatever chat you use (GroupMe, WhatsApp, or regular Messages). Here is some info about me if you are interested:

I live in Atlanta, GA

I am certified in both Python and Tableau

I make sure myself and everyone is doing their fair share when it comes to projects

I am very through and a perfectionist/completionist and I also make sure the project is submitted (in case the group member is busy or computer crashes or forgot to do it)

I always make reminders on what/when to do things

  Comment from User 506357:
  Hi Bhakti! I'd love to join your team if you still need another member. I am also in EST so our time zones match! I'm very comfortable with R, Excel, and Tableau and also have experience with Power BI, Python, and SQL. Let me know if you have room on your team!

  Comment from User 962339:
  Hi, I'd love to join your team if you still need another member. A little bit about me: I am in EST time zone based in Charlotte, NC. This is my 5th course in OMSA so far. I work as a software developer in healthcare industry. I am comfortable working with Python, SQL, R, Excel etc. Let me know if you have room on your team. My email is tkumar70@gatech.edu

