Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1133850:
Hi everyone, my name is Carrie, and I live in the Washington DC Area. My email is cwilliams498@gatech.edu

Time Zone: EST 

Experience: I'm currently a data scientist on a government contract; my latest project mainly focused on NLP and geospatial data, plus I took a lead role in conducting code reviews. 

Communication: WhatsApp, Teams, Email

Skills: Python, data viz, HTML, CSS, and JS. Comfortable intermediate for R; rusty intermediate for SQL; wiz at Excel

Other: This is my only course this semester, but I will be taking a language class at another institute at the same time.

Project Topic: Open to any and all topics.



5:48pm EST UPDATE: I have captured two people as my team members, so I am now placing my post on resolved status. Thank you to those who responded to my post and offered to be my teammate, I was both overwhelmed and excited that finding a team wasn't going to be as hard as finding my glasses when they are not on my face.

  Comment from User 990448:
  Hi Carrie, 

I'm Patalee. and I live in the EST time zone. My email is bappuhamilage3@gatech.edu

Experience: I am an applied econometrician with a strong background in analytics.

Communication: Whatsapp, GT Email, Teams 

Skills: R, Python

Project Topic: I am open to any topic but interested in health data.

Please let me know if you are interested in joining me in your group.

  Comment from User 578087:
  Hello Carrie,

I am Pankaj, live in Minnesota, CST time zone, email : pshrestha31@gatech.edu and interested in being part of the the group project.

Time Zone: CST

Experience: I am a Data Engineer working on a SaaS fintech company with experience in Data Warehouse/Data Lake/Lake house, Business Intelligence area. This is my 8th course.

Communication: Teams, Email, anything else that is needed

Skills: Python, SQL, Databricks, AWS

Other: This is also my only course this semester.

Project Topic: Also open to any and all topics.

    Comment from User 1133850:
    I tag you in

  Comment from User 1325825:
  Hello Carrie,

My name is Dailu Hou, and I am in my second semester of the OMSA program. I am currently looking for a team member to collaborate with me and Yi for this project. I was wondering if you are interested in joining us.

Feel free to reach out to me at dhou30@gatech.edu.

Time Zone: I am flexible with EST, MST, or PST.



Communication: I prefer Discord, text, or email for coordination.

Experience:

I completed my undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech in Biomedical Engineering.

I currently work as a consultant for a healthcare company

Skills:

Strong math background

Proficient in Power BI, Tableau, and data visualization tools

Skilled in both Python and R

Project Topic: I am open to exploring any topic and excited to contribute to a meaningful project.

Best,
Dailu

