Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1316700:
Hi everyone! My name is Dominique, and I'm currently living in Lexington, KY. 

Time Zone: EST, but flexible 

Communication: Text or Teams, but open to other platforms

Skills: I've worked with R, SQL, Python, LaTeX and have several other skills stemming from my Operations Research degree. I feel I have a pretty strong Python background as I've worked with libraries for machine learning, simulation, web scraping, sentiment analysis, and interactive visualizations for several projects/assignments.

Experience: I've done machine learning research projects in the past, mainly focusing on financial and real estate markets. I've done well in ISYE 6501, CSE 6040, and CSE 6242. Again, I did my undergrad in Operations Research at Columbia University, so I've taken machine learning, data visualization, simulation, optimization, statistical analysis, finance, and business-related classes recently.

Project Topic: I would love to work on a project related to sports analytics (mainly interested in the NBA and soccer), but I'm also open to other areas of interest (e.g., gaming, media analysis, education, sociology, etc).

That being said, I'm detail-oriented, insightful, and a fast learner. So if anyone wants to team up, you can reply to this message or shoot me an email at dmorris46@gatech.edu.

  Comment from User 814295:
  Hi Dominique! I'm interested in joining your group. My name is Kayla and I'm currently located in Boston, MA.

Time Zone: EST

Communication: Text, Teams, Outlook, Zoom, Discord-- whatever works best for you

Skills: I've worked with R and Python throughout my time in the program. My last class worked with R so I'll be sure to dust off the Python syntax, haha.  I've also worked a bit with MATLAB in undergrad. I have a strong background in math and can learn very quickly. 

Experience: I earned my undergrad in Physics where I worked with MATLAB in my computational physics course and others. This is my 8th class in the program and I've done well in all. 

Project Topic: I'm open to any topic! All the ones you've listed sound interesting, especially media analysis, education, and sociology. I'm cool with sports analytics too since I've never studied that before :)

I take pride in being able to communicate well and often. Let me know if you'd like to team up! (kmasozera3@gatech.edu)

  Comment from User 1127895:
  Hey Dominique and Kayla! If you are still open to a third I'd be interested in teaming up with you two. 

Time Zone: I'm located in Michigan, so EST as well

Communication: Whatever works! 

Skills: SQL and Python are my jam and I use those pretty much daily in my 9-5. I have experience building linear programming and simulation models from scratch as well as using various packages for random other projects. 

Experience: Senior Data Analyst in the financial lending space, currently working on transitioning to a Data Scientist role at my company. This is my 5th class in the program. 

Project Topic: All in on sports analytics! I may have scrolled far enough to find the first person saying they were interested in sports analytics, who's to say :) 

My email is cfryzel3@gatech.edu - looking forward to hearing from you!

