Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 896437:
Hi everyone! I am looking for teammates or to join a team! Here is some information about me:

Time Zone: CST - Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas

Communication: Discord, Teams, Email - my email is rlalani8@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Data Engineering, Math background (Bachelors Degree)

Experience: I am currently working as a Data Engineer in the Telecommunications Industry and previously worked in the financial industry with the same title.

OMSA Program: This is my 9th class in the OMSA program.

Project Topic: I am open to any topic that can be done, would love to do something with sports if that is feasible!

  Comment from User 1230031:
  Hi Rahim, it looks like there are some common interest we both share in terms of sports and timezone and I would love to form a group with you! 

My name is Ye Ban and I have experience in the sports media industry, mainly focused on esports. 

Time Zone: CST (Austin, Texas)

Communication: Slack, Discord, Teams, Email  (ychoi450@gatech.edu)

Skills: Python, R, SQL, Data Visualization tools (Tableau, Power BI, Looker Studio), Statistics & Mathematics (Bachelors)

Experience: I am currently working as a Data Analyst in the AI Industry, focusing on event organization. I have previously worked as a sports data analyst at a sports media company. 

OMSA Program: This is my 6th class in the OMSA program.

Availability: Evenings or weekends would work for me! 

Project Topic: Sports also sounds good to me! I previously have finished a project in chess sports. I am open to other topics, pretty flexible with that! 

Please let me know if you have other questions!

    Comment from User 896437:
    Hey Ye, I'd like to work with you and @Jiayu Yan if you are still interested!

I'll send an email if you still are!

  Comment from User 1133866:
  Hi Rahim! My name is Katherine (Jiayu) Yan and I would love to form a team together!

Time Zone: CST -  Austin, Texas

Communication: Teams, Email - my email is jyan382@gatech.edu

Skills: Python, Java, C, R, SQL, Data Engineering, CS background (Bachelors Degree)

Experience: I am currently working as a Process Engineer in the Tech Industry and will rotate to a Data Science role within the same company in the next month.

OMSA Program: This is my 8th class in the OMSA program.

Project Topic: I can do sports! I'm interested in music industry as well so happy to explore other fields :)

Feel free to reach out to my email if we can form into one group!

    Comment from User 896437:
    Hey Katherine, I'd like to work with you and @Ye Ban Choi if you are still interested!

I'll send an email if you still are!

