Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1308115:
Hi all! I'm looking for a teammate to work as a group of 2 (grading and splitting the work is a little easier). 

Time Zone: PST (Oakland, CA). CST and EST should work fine as well.

Communication: Teams, Discord, Email, Phone.

Background: B.S. in Electrical Engineering. This is my 5th course in OMSA (4.0 if it matters).

Project topic: Something fun, interesting, or good for resume. Examples: Board games, gaming, Netflix, Spotify, product analysis. Open to suggestions as well :)

Let me know what topics you're interested in as well! You'll get a teammate who is easy to work with and puts in a lot of effort. You can email me d.kim@gatech.edu or reply below.

  Comment from User 0:
  

    Comment from User 1232277:
    Hey Kriti, 

It is NOT Nice to exactly copy-paste my profile description from CSE6242 class and deceive others. Incase your experience 100% resembles then still plz write in your own words.

      Comment from User 1512037:
      Hi Kshitij

Sorry, I thought your format was good and I have worked on the same technologies. I will edit. My bad.

  Comment from User 1331323:
  Hi Daeseong,

I'd be interested in working with you if you are still looking for a teammate.

Time Zone: South Carolina, EST

Communication: Test or Email, open to any

Experience: Mechanical Engineer at a energy based company. BS and MS in mechanical engineering

Classes taken: Modeling and Simulation

Skills: Python, MATLAB

Project Topic: Would like to work on a project in the sport predictive field or finance

  Comment from User 1512055:
  Hey Daeseong,

I would love to work with any of the topics mentioned :)


Time Zone: UTC-3 - São Paulo

Typical Study Hours: After 8pm on weekdays and weekends as needed

Communication: Email, Zoom, WhatsApp - email: liviaa.mlopes@gmail.com (I prefer using my personal email as I check it more often)

Skills: Python, C, SQL and PysPark with a Math Bachelors and a Data Science/AI specialization.

Experience: I've been working as a Data Scientist in the financial market in the past 3 and a half years. Before that, I worked as a Data Analyst in the same industry.

OMSA Program: This is my 2nd class in the OMSA program.

