Thread ID: 5940876
User 134876 (Original Post) says:
Hi class!

Please feel free to use this space to find potential team members for your project! 

Please remember to resolve your comment when you've set up your team, so anyone reading knows you already have found team members to work with.

You can use the following template:

Time Zone: EST

Experience: I currently work as a XXX, with experience in YYY.

Communication: Teams, Slack, Email, etc.

Skills: XXX

Other: I've taken XXX courses

Project Topic: Open to any topic, or topics specific to X topic.

Comment from User 1332943:
Hi everyone! I am looking for a group to work with on the project. Feel free to email or message me if you’re interested in working together. Here’s a little bit about me:

Time Zone: PST (San Francisco, CA)

Communication: Email (rhobbib3@gatech.edu), Discord, Text, Ed, Slack

Experience: Graduated in 2022 with a B.S. in Neurobiology, Physiology, and Behavior. Worked in a stroke research lab for two years as an undergrad, and then an epilepsy research lab for two years as a research assistant.

OMSA Program: 4th class in the program (+CSE6040 this semester)

Skills: Understanding and interpreting biomedical data. Mid-level experience at Python and R, but I tend to pick up new languages quickly. 

Project Interests: I am definitely interested in doing something related to neuroscience/biology/healthcare since I have a strong background in that field. I’m also very passionate about sports and would be interested in doing a project related to sports analytics.

  Comment from User 1229949:
  Hey Ryan,
I emailed you.

  Comment from User 307257:
  Hi Ryan, 

let me know if you're interested in forming a team!

Details: Currently work as an analyst in tech sector but open up to any topic. For my practicum, my team analyzed telematic data and used machine models to provide solution to the company. 

Time Zone: PST

Preferred Communication: Text or email (Xinyinglu14@gmail.com)

Experience: 3 Years Data Analyst for tech, data visualization and modeling

Skills: Proficient in Python and SQL

Topic Interest: Open to various topics.

