Thread ID: 5940878
User 134876 (Parent Post) says:
<document version="2.0"><paragraph>Hey class,<break/><break/>Setting up this space to allow our TAs to introduce themselves.<break/><break/>We have a very diverse set of TAs this semester, each with their own experiences and perspectives to contribute to the course...so I think it would be good to let you know a bit about us/our backgrounds/what we're interested in.</paragraph></document>

Comment from User 896413:
Hi everyone, welcome to CDA!

I'm an OMSA student and this is my third semester as a TA for this class. I just finished this class last Spring, so feel free to come to office hours and ask about how to succeed in this class. I will be holding the class intro, LaTeX tutorial, and project intro office hours (#10).

Professionally, I'm currently a business analyst doing workforce analytics at a telecom company (basically how to staff data centers), and my undergrad degree was in mechanical engineering. I don't really use ML/AI at work just yet but I'll be trying a few things out soon. I'm located in the SF Bay Area in California. If you're around on the OMSA Slack, you've probably seen me around.

Fun fact: I did dragonboat (龍舟, like sprinting in a 20-person canoe) for about a decade. It's a fun team sport.

Comment from User 215365:
Hello everyone,

My name is Brent Speelman and I graduated from OMSA in Fall 2022. I have a couple of degrees in chemistry, but my research involved dynamical systems (chaos theory) applied to epilepsy and computationally modeling cold viruses. I’m looking forward to being a TA again (this is my third year) and working with you this semester.

Fun fact: I was a policy debate coach for a speech and debate club that my sons were also in.

  Reply from User 1230089:
  omg! have you published any journals? I'd love to check them out!

Comment from User 134876:
Hello Everyone,

I finished OMSA in Fall 2022, and have been a TA for ISYE6740 for just as long. Currently, I work as a Data Scientist on a finance data science team with Corning, Inc. I used this degree to transition from more traditional accounting/finance roles, and now my work involves essentially full-stack data science work in terms of data engineering and pipelining, productionalizing models and tracking results, all with a focus on how modeling can be applied to corporate finance.

Fun fact: I spent two years after high school as a traveling carnival worker.

Good luck to everyone, let's have a great semester!

Comment from User 672141:
Hello All,

Currently I'm an OMSA student, and my background is in Finance with several years working in Corporate Finance in various roles and working now in Healthcare Management in New York. I took this class during Spring 2024 and had a great experience learning the class content and attending office hours. This is truly one of the best classes in OMSA. I highly recommend folks give it an opportunity and take advantage of all the resources provided by the teaching staff. My office hours are open Q&A, and I try to help students break down complex concepts into simpler ones. 

Fun fact: in the past I ran a half-marathon in Central Park. 

Comment from User 284691:
Hi all! My name is Alex Nanni, and I'm an alumnus of the OMSA program and a current student in OMSCS. After finishing OMSA, I started working in institutional research at a university, where I use data analysis and visualization to facilitate data-informed decision making. 

Fun facts: I lived and worked in Thailand for 17 years; I moved back to the US, to my home state of Rhode Island, in June 2023. I have an academic background (master's and doctorate) in education. 

ISYE 6740 was one of the absolute best courses among the many excellent courses that I took in OMSA! I'm glad to have this opportunity to be part of the course community once again. I look forward to an excellent semester!

Comment from User 979414:
Hello Everyone,

My name is Paresh Agarwal. This is my second semester as a TA. I took this class Fall 2023. 

I work as Software Engineer at Google. I have a previous bachelors and masters in Computer Science. I am very passionate about problem solving and programming. I enjoy learning most algorithms by visualizations / toy examples to get a better understanding of the concepts. 

I am happy to share my perspective and approach during my office hours.

Fun Fact: During pandemic I got interested in woodworking and I built a full study, temple and guest bedroom furniture from scratch. 


Looking forward to seeing you all. Happy Learning !!

Comment from User 962232:
Greetings,

I'm an OMSA student and this is my second semester as a TA. I took this class this past summer so learning the course content is still fresh in my mind. I work as a DevOps engineer in Charlottesville, Virginia. I have a strong background in software development, so feel free to reach out to me or come to my office hours with coding questions and error messages.

Fun fact: I collect and repair retro video game consoles and accessories.

Comment from User 217529:
Hey everyone!

I am an OMSA alum and I work as a federal data science and AI consultant and product developer. This is my second semester TA'ing this course, and I've TA'ed 6501 in the past. 

Fun fact: In my spare time I'm training as a pilot

Comment from User 799310:
Hi everyone! I graduated from OMSA in December 2023 and am excited to be a TA for the course this semester. I work as an AI consultant / developer in Washington, DC where I help develop AI applications for the federal government. I've also got experience in data science, machine learning, and software engineering. I've served as a TA at Georgia Tech since January 2023.



My fun fact is that I ran 2 marathons last year

